---
layout: post
title: San Francisco Adventure
date: 2018-12-28
tags: [ personal ]
---

There's a train set on display at the Walt Disney Family Museum so Hilary and I
made the trek up to San Francisco today to see it. Driving through the Presidio
I'm always so impressed by the beauty of that part of the city. Old trees, open
spaces, and views of the bay including the Golden Gate.

I learned of a new rich man's pastime, that of "Garden Trains." These are scale
trains that folks set up in their back yards. Walt Disney built his own engine
and rolling stock, and the train was large enough that he could ride it, and
give others rides, around his backyard. They have the actual train that he
built on display in the permanent exhibition. What we saw, and what I hear goes
up every Christmas, was a model train set of Walt's home in Southern California,
garden train included.

Obligatory selfies in front of the Golden Gate concluded, we managed to fit in a
trip to Amoeba Records on Haight, which has the best experimental music section
of any record store I've ever visited. As always I could have walked out with
half the section but was able to limit it down to a few choice pieces, including
a CD print of a Le Rallizes Denudes bootleg I hadn't seen before.

We made it to Shizen shortly before it opened, and I was unsurprised to note a
line halfway down the block, and growing quickly, waiting for the restaurant to
open. Fortunately the wait wasn't too long and they were able to seat us at the
bar immediately. The food was its usual exceptionally high quality. It's hard
not to write about that place without sounding ridiculous, but a bite of one of
Hilary's sushi roll made me feel grateful to be alive. Not kidding. This is
next-level food.

Our last stop of the day's adventure was to Herbst Theater to see Ben De La
Creme and Jinkx Monsoon in their Christmas-themed drag show. Both are favorites
from RuPaul's Drag Race and they didn't disappoint.

Hilary had upgraded the tickets for a meet-and-greet so we waited for a while
for the chance to get a selfie with them and say hello. Then it was time for the
long drive back to Santa Cruz and straight to bed.

It's a lot of time and energy, let alone hassle, to get up to San Francisco. And
many friends who live there or have lived there advise that driving by car to
San Francisco is one of the most frustrating ways to visit that fair city. But
it really is a remarkable place, and I appreciate being reminded of that from
time to time.

