---
layout: post
title: "The Hills"
date: 2018-08-30
tags: [ personal ]
---

I bought my first house a long time ago in Albuquerque. It was what they call
a "shotgun" house, all laid out in a line, with a front room leading to a
kitchen, through the kitchen a small hallway with the bathroom on the right,
and a single back room.

Living with my then wife, we slept in the back room so the front room served
as both the living room and my office. I learned to work on a computer with
a TV on, and many seasons of Buffy and Angel, watched on DVD, soaked into my
subconscious along with the Real Housewives of Diverse Affluent Cities.

I think I've developed a taste for these shows but only can really enjoy them
as a secondary activity, like while focused on a computer primarily, either
playing games, writing code, or even just surfing the Internet.

It took me a while to realize that I prefer a desk in the living room after
moving to California because, once Hilary moved in, we have always lived in
places that supported me having a separate office. But I've never really known
what to do in a separate office. They tend to become just dumping grounds,
storage for stuff that I don't want to keep out in the open common areas.

So a few weeks ago I finally moved a desk back into our living room. And it's
been a revelation. Sitting at a desk is just so much a better way to use a
computer than working with a laptop on my lap, which is how I feel like I spend
90% of my weekdays and weekends.

Now Hil is re-watching a show from her past,
[The Hills](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hills_%28TV_series%29). I gotta say
I'm weirdly hooked. I don't think I could ever sit down and watch this show but
it's fun to be able to dip in with my attention from time to time and observe
that absolutely nothing has changed, despite multiple 20-minute episodes having
ripped by.

Nothing more intelligent to say tonight, got home late and had homework until
10, and the Hills were on for a bit. All caught up in Heidi and Spencer drama.
He's such a jerk.
