---
layout: post
title: "Woosh"
date: 2018-08-29
tags: [ personal, motorcycles ]
---

Back-to-back at work all day, got in with only a few minutes to spare and wasn't
able to find a charger for the Zero, which is relatively rare. I think had I
been 5 minutes earlier I could have grabbed the last one. Then didn't even have
room for lunch, had to ask one my reports to walk with me to the cafeteria so
I could grab a box of takeout for wolfing down over the next meeting.

*Oh,* I told myself, *I'll charge it right before that last long meeting of
the day.* And then there was some recruiting excitement, last minute schedule
changes, so it wasn't until I was walking out across the parking light in the
fading light, gear on, helmet in hand, that I remembered that my bike was
sitting somewhere in the neighborhood of 40% charge. Great.

Called Hil, explained the situation, she agreed to drive over the hill and join
me for a late supper. There was an event at
[Shoreline](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shoreline_Amphitheatre), traffic was
nuts, but we figured it out.

Fast forward to Hil dropping me off next to my (now fully charged) Zero for the
ride home. I burned down the 85 to the 17 and encountered a chain of like 5
motorcycles in a row, cruising in the left-hand lane.

When I rode motorcycles in New Mexico, where
[lane splitting](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lane_splitting) is illegal,
if I encountered another motorcyclist while riding it was usually a non-event.

But in California, because we bikers have the freedom to ride between and around
the lanes of traffic, it makes passing another motorcycle feel a lot more
risky than passing most other forms of transport. You have no way of knowing
if that biker is going to suddenly dive in between the lanes, right where you
were headed, without checking their rearview to look for another motorcyclist.

So encountering a regular trail of bikers, not clearly affiliated, on the
windy highway of the 17 was a situation to be approached with extreme care. So
odd to me that the creativity afforded a motorcyclist in this state, the only
state in the Union that affords this freedom, makes it so that I often feel
I have more to fear from a 500 pound motorbike than I do from a three-quarter
ton pickup truck.

Ain't that the way, though?
