---
layout: post
title: "XCOM 2 Chosen Slayer"
date: 2019-08-04
tags: [ personal ]
---

I do think the deep working sessions during the weekdays are awesome and productive, but they are also exhausting. So
come Friday morning I've noticed that session that I'm feeling a little frayed around the edges. I'll be monitoring this
week to see if I can sustain this number of sessions, or if I need to cut back. I can't have this personal deep working
time interfere with my work, that's crossing the line. Right now the feelings of focus and self confidence I get from
those sessions has been an overwhelming net positive, but if the exhaustion cuts that benefit off I'll have to revisit.

There will probably be some mornings, particularly come perf, where the deep working sessions will have to also be
devoted to work, but that actually seems cool to me because I think with some focused working time the paperwork chores
I normally have to get through I think will be done relatively quickly and relatively well. So that feels like a real
benefit, again.

Meanwhile, although I did attend the {% include tag_link.html tag="supercollider" %} developer conference call, and had
a deep working session on Confab for {% include tag_link.html tag="sclork" %}, I also managed to take down one of the
three "Chosen" Assassins in my first playthrough of *XCOM 2, War of the Chosen*. It was a very satisfying boss fight,
particularly because this Chosen has been harassing me on various missions for some time. I'd played through the
original campaign a few times after the original release of *XCOM 2*. Then I played the first few expansions, and did
agree with the overall sentiment from reviews that turning on all of the DLC kind of made the game a hot, if
entertaining, mess. *War of the Chosen* does kind of bring some things back in to balance, and does bring an interesting
narrative element to some of the fights. There doesn't seem to be much in the way of rumor regarding *XCOM 3*, but one
article I dug up did indicate that Firaxis was headed in the direction of more narrative flow to the game. Which, I'm
not mad at, honestly.

I had been playing *Mutant: Year Zero* some, and will probably return to it once I wrap up this last *XCOM 2*
playthrough. And *Phoenix Point* is still supposed to drop next month, which is awesome. The previews I see capture a
lot of the original flavor of the *XCOM* games I played back in college, and I like the targeting mechanic. I think it
will open up a lot of opportunities for creative play like in the old games, where it was often the right decision to
destroy the terrain or other creative mis-(ab)-use of game mechanics. So, lots of fun tactical games in the pipeline.
Another fun reason to keep the deep working sessions going in the morning, because when I come home at night it's a lot
less of a bummer to play some games, given that I already made my working contribution a priority.

I still haven't researched the Chosen's weapons, but I think maybe you get to use them then? Probably should have done
that before I jumped into the next fight with the second assassin, which was where I saved for the night. Oh well, maybe
lessons learned for the third one, whose stronghold I have also located.

