---
layout: post
title: "Chelsea"
date: 2019-08-22
tags: [ personal ]
---

It was up early for a long day of meetings, made a bit harder by my late arrival to New York City this morning and the
Easty Coast time difference. However, the Google Chelsea offices are lovely. It's my first time back to New York in
probably 10 years, and although I experienced almost none of it today outside of a hotel room and office buildings my
impressions are generally positive.

I've never considered myself a "big city person," having been raised in Albuquerque (which only folks who haven't left
Albuquerque think of as a big city), but recent experiences both in New York and in London make me feel like that
perhaps I could enjoy life in such a context. It is an adjustment, in California, to never be alone really, and I think
a city represents a further step down that path. But the access to other people and institutions afforded by a big city
might be more than worth it.

That's funny about being in your 40s, however, is coming to grips with the fact that there is at least some possibility
that you could be looking at another 20-25 years of life before the next big change, and in fact that's a *relatively
fortunate outcome*. Like, most big life changes happening in post-40s aren't on average positive. So what that means is
that it is very likely that I won't have that "life in the big city" experience. And maybe that's ok.

There was little time for things outside of work today, and tomorrow is looking similar. The project I'm working on is
super interesting right now, so it's a situation that I'm fine with. Hilary and I have remarked that perhaps a vacation
trip to New York should be bumped up the priority list, so my urge for solo tourism is low. If I have free time on
Friday I might hole up in a conference room and either catch up on some of my normal Google workload or, possibly, spend
a bit of time tinkering with {% include tag_link.html tag="sclork" %} code.

So all in all a pretty chill trip so far, if tiring.

