---
layout: post
title: "Reset"
date: 2019-08-25
tags: [ personal, chickens ]
---

Hilary returns tomorrow from her long trip to complete her 500 hour yoga instruction. I woke up fairly early this
morning myself, with a long list of chores to get done but with the prospect of a return to normalcy within 24 hours.

The {% include tag_link.html tag="chickens" %} had discovered the electrical wiring for the coop and pecked their way
through the outer insulation and then the inner insulation around individual conductors, shorting out their entire coop.
It's fortunate that the GFI outlet tripped and no birds or coop were harmed. But there's a wiring project in my future,
figuring out a way to get some power in there without tempting the birds to further distruction.

The System76 Oryx Pro took a short fall this evening, from a coffee table on to the floor, and unfortunately a piece of
plastic covering one of the joints connecting the display to the body snapped off. It's a cosmetic consideration,
looking much worse in terms of damage than I think it actually is, although I'm wondering if the sharp little piece
that's left will catch something, like some fabric or maybe an errant finger. Time will tell. Looking up the emails, it
looks like I've had this laptop for just a few days over a year, so I guess some evident wear and tear is not uncalled
for. The lack of sharp edges on the MacBook Pro may reflect some wisdom in this regard.

By and large I enjoy my usual routine, so I'm glad for its return.

