---
layout: post
title: "The A Word"
date: 2019-06-13
tags: [ personal, supercollider ]
---

After a few quiet days the discussion around psychological safety on the {% include tag_link.html tag="supercollider" %}
dev list took a turn for the worse this morning, unfortunately, with a post by lead developer Brian talking about some
of his real experiences around abuse around decision making, followed very quickly by a response from another senior
developer that, to my reading of it, completely dismisses his concerns. This is upsetting and disappointing, because the
more I talk with the folks who are struggling with these feelings around psych safety the more it is becoming clear to
me that we are at a crossroads, with some folks ready to write other folks off in the development community.

Forks are born from these kinds of divisions, and yet the other side doesn't seem willing to acknowledge the experiences
or feelings being expressed here. Brian was dismissed for sharing his experience, so much so that he was *literally
given permission to leave the project.* I thought this merited a response because I don't think we as a community can
tolerate that kind of behavior from anyone, let alone another project lead, let alone on a thread where folks are being
invited to share their experiences in a moment of vulnerability.

I've also been concerned that maybe folks aren't understanding what the stakes are here in this email exchange. There
are people watching this thread to determine if they are going to remain involved *at all* on the email list. So I upped
the language a bit [with this response](https://www.listarc.bham.ac.uk/lists/sc-dev/msg59235.html). This was also,
unfortunately, immediately tone policed. So, at this point, kinda fresh out of ideas.

I'm also taking notice of how little gas this discussion is leaving in the tank for other things like hobby coding or, I
don't know, maybe my day job? Like there's a lot going on right now at work that would probably benefit from me being
less distracted and pissed off.

And with that another day is done. Not looking forward to the next 16 hours of responses on the psych safety thread.

