---
layout: post
title: "Stuck in Seattle"
date: 2019-06-11
tags: [ personal, sclork ]
---

It was an interesting day at the [Talent 42](https://www.talent42.com/) conference. I participated in two events, the
first a Family Feud-style game show that pitted a few engineers against a few recruiters in trying to guess popular
answers to some engineering recruiting questions that had been put to the conference attendees earlier. It was
educational to see some of the survey results, and I'm proud to say that the engineers won!

Then in the afternoon we had a "fireside chat", without the fireplace so really just more of a frank Q&A, with my
recruiting partners and a few of my colleagues from Google fielding questions from engineering recruiters in the
audience. It was interesting to hear some of the challenges implied in the questions being asked. I've dabbled in
recruiting, trying to add to my own pipeline of incoming candidates, and it's hard work! You have to cast a wide net and
send a lot of messages just to get a few responses from interested parties, and yet all of the feedback I had today
about what makes me responsive to a recruiting outreach (not that I'm looking, easy now) is that personal touch. *A rock
and a hard place* is what I'm describing here. It's true that, because I'm not actively looking and am happily planning
on spending the foreseeable future at Google, any recruiter that approaches me is on sell mode. I'm not going to work
harder than they are on the relationship, in fact far from it. So recruiting me right now would require high investment
of a recruiter's time, with very low probability of success.

There are more jobs than competent folks to do them in software engineering right now, and that goes double for
engineering management. So we can be super picky. It's great for me when I'm thinking about my own career, until I'm in
a situation like I have been up until recently when I'm trying to hire engineering managers to work on my team. Then I
am again reminded of how tough the recruiter's job is. As I was today.

My job done, I left the conference, hoping to get to the airport a bit early to ensure a smooth flight home. Then the
flight got delayed, and delayed again. I'm currently sitting in the Seattle airport hoping that the new *4 hour delay*
will stick. Yay! Got an early morning start again tomorrow. It's going to be fun.

Still, I'm glad I came. I got to support my recruiting partners, learned a little bit more about the life of an
engineering recruiter, and hopefully made a good impression for Google on a few folks at the conference.

