---
layout: post
title: "Toy Story 4"
date: 2019-06-24
tags: [ personal, supercollider ]
---

Up and at work super early for an east-coast meeting, so I didn't feel bad about leaving work a bit early to pop back
over the hill and catch and early showing of Toy Story 4 with Hilary. Pixar has done it again with this one, with a
tight, punchy plot, enjoyable characters, and of course the obligatory Pixar water works leaving Hilary and I both in
tears at the end of the film.

Then home for reheated veggie pot pie, followed by me diving in to the new office space for another hour or so of
focused work on {% include tag_link.html tag="supercollider" %}. It's still pretty terrifying to focus in on making
audio, but on the motorcycle ride in this morning (my time to reflect) I was really feeling the responsibility that I
face with this editor staring back at me at night.

There's a responsibility here to learn so many different domains, including music theory, digital audio manipulation,
recording technologies, digital signal processing, and the peculiarities of performance using SuperCollider. I feel
behind by years and years compared to where I want to be and what I want to do, with very little time available each day
to spend "catching up."

So it's easy to get overwhelmed. This evening I spent some time reading through a snippet copied from Nathan that
creates a realistic electric-guitar like feedback into distortion sound. Just learning about the different ```UGen```
modules that Nathan is using in this patch lead me down *several* rabbit holes reading about different filter
technologies as well as the ```LocalIn``` and ```LocalOut``` modules. So after spending a lot of time just reading
through stuff and not making any sounds I thought it might be good to try and build a ride cymbal synth following
[this article](https://www.soundonsound.com/techniques/synthesizing-realistic-cymbals) by Gordon Reid.

I've been working on this blog every day for about 10 months now, given my first post was 14 August 2018. And while I'm
confident the quality hasn't always been great it's got me thinking about the power of committing to doing something
each and every day. I've also learned what a serious committment that is, given that some (most week-)days my free time
is scarce to nonexistant.

All of that aside, I'm both nervously and excitedly contemplating the idea that I would make a commitment to spend at
least an hour every day on trying to make sounds with SuperCollider. We'll have to see, though, how that fits in with
everything else that's going on. Probably not well.

