---
layout: post
title: "GPD Pocket 2"
date: 2019-06-04
tags: [ personal ]
---

Very little time for anything today except an attempt to fix my Kombucha brewing setup, which didn't meet with success, and I got
word that the GPD Pocket 2 that I had ordered was delivered. I was excited to get home and try the machine out, but only had time
to boot it before joining Hilary for a night out at Cafe Cruz for dinner with some friends. That turned out to be a really enjoyable
experience, but it was another evening of home later on and limited time to putter around or otherwise do things that might be of
interest for this blog.

While I was able to boot Gentoo, my Linux of choice for workstations, and even get the Pocket 2 connected to the Internet, thus
allowing me to ssh in to the device, I note that the display is rotated sideways, and even the pretty neat (and usually much
better documented) Arch Linux guides about getting stuff going on the Pocket 2 is saying that some basic things like hibernation
is only tentatively supported. Since this is an ultraportable I'm not sure how I feel about a big research project right now just
to try and guarantee that I will neither melt the device or drain the battery by the simple act of closing the lid and putting the
device in my pocket.

I do read that somebody out there is releasing experimental builds of Chromium OS, the open-source version of ChromeOS sans Play
Store/Android support for the Pocket 2, with *most* things working. Also Ubuntu MATE 19.04 has a prebuilt release for the device
with *damn near everything* working, at least it seems, including a bunch of stuff that I'm likely to never really use or want,
like the touchscreen. And while I'm typically a big snob about these Linux distros that may not even come with gcc installed by
default the idea that I could drop a Linux flavor on the Pocket 2 tomorrow morning, and be reasonably confident that I would end
up with a usable computer at the end of the install, sounds probably too appealing to pass up. Gentoo is great and all but on
the laptops, for me, usability is king.

Lotta feels about the new Mac Pro. I think I read an article in the Verge comparing it to a supercar and I think that's a fair
analogy. It's ridiculously overpriced, and I'm confident I could build a markedly more powerful computer for a lower price.
But it wouldn't have an ounce of the style that the new cheese graters just ooze. So there's that.
