---
layout: post
title: "Dog Day"
date: 2019-06-07
tags: [ personal ]
---

It was with a heavy hear that I sent [that email](https://www.listarc.bham.ac.uk/lists/sc-dev/msg59171.html) to the
{% include tag_link.html tag="supercollider" %} dev list yesterday evening. Things have been mostly quiet on that front,
however. Instead I got to have a relatively chill day at work, in terms of meeting load, with a bunch of co-workers
bringing in their dogs for me to play with.

One of the engineers on my team brought his new puppy in to work, for the first time for something more than just a
quick visit. He's definitely still a puppy, and everyone in our local work area had to have a turn petting the new
doggie and playing a bit of tug-of-war with him. Then our UX lead comes by with her adorable 3-legged pit bull, who had
a fun tussle with the puppy for a minute, and the office essentially ground to a halt for a few moments while we all
admired the unbridled joy of happy dogs playing.

A couple of meetings later and I was having lunch with Nathan, another SuperCollider contributor who happened to be
nearby today, and was gracious enough to drop by Google campus for some food and a chat. We talked for a good while,
even having time for a short walk before I had to return to work. It's always great to connect in person with someone
that I normally spend most of our time together online. Nathan is also a talented SuperCollider musician, so it was a
real treat to hear some of his thoughts about actually making music with the software.

My truck was in the shop for a routine service so I left work a bit early to head over and pick it up. Then home, cooked
dinner, and sat on the couch playing Hollow Knight for a good chunk of the evening. I even beat the Grey Mourner
challenge, which is easier than it sounds because most of the enemies you kill don't respawn if you don't sit on another
bench, so it's possible to clear the path ahead to a certain extent.

Then it was time for bed. Tomorrow I'm hoping to do some work planning the chicken coop and a garden, as well as some
more cleanup and setup in my office. But it feels like the weekend is already off to a great start.

