---
layout: post
title: "Stamina"
date: 2019-06-05
tags: [ personal ]
---

I think I may have to take up running again, if not for my mental or physical well-being, if only so that I might be
able to make it through some of these back-to-back meeting days. Right now by the afternoon I have a bad headache and
want to take a nap. Not good when I'm looking at another 3 hours, 6 meetings. I'll take Ibuprofen when it's really bad,
like today, but that doesn't feel like a sustainable solution. Getting out for a run might mean that I have a bit more
energy available to survive days like today.

This morning I downloaded Ubuntu MATE 19.04 for the GPD Pocket 2 that showed up last night. I didn't have time to
attempt an install so I brought the tiny computer with me to work, along with the disk image that I had burned to a
Samsung Portable Hard Drive. It got quite a few questions and admiring glances from my fellow nerds at work, too, which
is fun. I can't find either of the two USB sticks I acquired recently, unfortunately, and I'm wondering if that's
creating an issue because when I try to boot the Pocket 2 off the external drive I just get a black screen. There's some
copy on the distro website saying that the boot manager not showing up is a known issue on the Pocket 2, and to just
wait a few seconds or hit enter to boot right away, but that doesn't seem to be cutting it. I let the device sit for
quite some time in that state but got nowhere.

When I got home I tossed my office a bit looking for those USB sticks, thinking that the problem might be booting
from that USB drive, although that's not really ever been a problem before. The device seems a little bit twitchy but I
don't see a lot of complaints in the forums to this effect. So I'm hoping it'll be smooth sailing once I get over this
initial hump.

The {% include tag_link.html tag="chickens" %} are doing great, I hear them cheeping away as I write this. This weekend
I'll be doing some planning the yard for the garden, compost, and chicken coop spaces, so looking forward to starting in
on that coop project. They're going to need it pretty soon, so time is of the essence.

