---
layout: post
title: "Ashen"
date: 2019-06-09
tags: [ personal ]
---

The big goals for this Sunday were to clean out the brooder for the {% include tag_link.html tag="chickens" %} as well
as formulate some kind of plan for the coop. There was a {% include tag_link.html tag="supercollider" %} dev conference
call in the morning, and I was also hoping to make some progress putting Gentoo on that GPD Pocket 2. I'm glad to report
a lot of those things happened, but what also happened is a lot of playing this new (for me) video game Ashen.

![Solar Explorer]({{ "assets/img/blog/2019-06-09-1.png" | absolute_url }})

For garden planning I got a gizmo called a Solar Explorer, so I was playing around with that while planning the chicken
coop. The idea is, after a bit of setup, you can plop this thing down anywhere in your yard and get a handy map of what
time of day, and during what months, one can expect direct sunlight on that spot. This picture isn't a great setup, I
notice, the compass should be aligned and the circle bubble isn't level. But the thing I learned was, while we're
sitting on a good bit of land, that land is covered with trees, and those trees keep most things in shade, most of the
time.

So there will need to be a bit more research about what veggies would be happy with that, but otherwise I think I'm
ready to go with some raised beds, surrounded by some fencing to keep the deer, raccoon, and others out. I think some
prior occupant must have had a similar thought process because I even discovered a hose bib that's still working, right
near that area. That's actually making me a bit nervous about dropping posts down with some fencing in the area, but it
doesn't matter how well watered those plants are, they aren't likely to last longer than a few nights unprotected from
the deer.

I did settle on a location for a chicken coop, too, way up on this concrete pad on the east end of our property.
Opinions about concrete flooring for coops are mixed, but given everything I hear about the rodent problems this seems
like the best choice, plus it's one of the shadiest spots and (with a little work) should have reliable access to
electricity, which could mean more Nest cams for keeping an eye on the birds. But we've got a coop and large enclosed
chicken run, scheduled for delivery some time towards the end of June, hopefully leaving plenty of time for the birds,
which are supposedly ready for the coop at around 6 weeks.

On the Pocket 2 I got the disks partitioned and my own kernel booting, along with WiFi support. The display isn't
automatically rotating, the hostname didn't get picked up, but it is at least booting under its own power. So that's
something. It doesn't have an Ethernet port built in, so the first thing on boot, at least until the display rotation is
fixed, is to get it connected to the password-protected WiFi and then ssh in to the laptop for more problem solving. I
think the goal is to get this system into a usable state without X, before taking the plunge into hardware accelerated X
with the Intel integrated graphics, followed by "quality of life" stuff for a laptop, probably focusing on things like a
battery indicator and (if I'm feeling plucky) suspend features when closing the lid. Ain't nothing free in Gentoo. But
on the other hand, skills gained here might be directly transferable to other laptops that I might be tempted to put
Gentoo on, like an old MacBook Pro or something else crazy like that. Oh, and for some reason the root file system is
mounting root-only, which is another problem to add to the list.

I notice I'm not writing any code, haven't written a line this weekend. I'm seeing that as a consequence on the
emotional labor I've been doing for the SuperCollider community. But I may want to be mindful of this consequence in the
future. There's a lot of projects that I'd like to see moving forward that right now just aren't at all.

I think there's at least some probability that tomorrow evening after work I'll be flying up to Seattle, as I've been
asked to speak at a recruiting conference about recruiting engineering managers. The travel has yet to actually be
booked and confirmed, however, so I'm wondering how that's all going to play out. One thing at a time, I guess.

