---
layout: post
title: "Perf"
date: 2019-09-15
tags: [ personal ]
---

I spent a chunk of the day working on perf-related paperwork, which fortunately today didn't seem nearly as emotionally
draining as it had been earlier in the working week. I'm resigned to some weekend work during perf season at Google,
it's unavoidable I think as a manager, but I'm pretty sure it's going to be contained to only this weekend. So that's
actually feeling quite reasonable.

Perhaps a bit of time, taking a day off on Saturday, was helpful on getting some perspective on my perf
responsibilities. This includes a separation of my feeling around my own perf and the work required to support my
colleagues and my own team during this time. My focus has been inward, when it needs to be balanced back between inward
and outward.

I've been watching [Northernlion](https://www.youtube.com/user/Northernlion) on YouTube while he plays through Children
of Morta. It's fun because we're in roughly the same place in the game, so it's like playing along with a friend, albiet
a one-way friendship. I've unlocked all of the characters in the game now, and they each play very differently. There's
a fatigue mechanic that encourages you to choose different characters for each playthrough. I do have widely varying
degrees of success with the different characters, and unlike Diablo III the difficulty of the levels doesn't scale with
individual character level, so I've gotten a lot more successful once I figured out I needed to send my less good
characters to the easier levels.

But even replaying the first level awkwardly is still pretty fun, and as those characters level they unlock family
"traits" which power up all characters in interesting new ways, so even a relatively short, failed run with a character
that I'm still trying to find my footing with feels productive towards advancing my other favorite characters, which is
fun.

There's a weird gender separation in the characters where the two female characters use ranged weapons and the males
used melee. Typical to form, I find myself much more comfortable and successful playing the female characters, and in
particular (trying to avoid spoilers here) I really like the second female character added. Her play style is really
quite entertaining, and although I beat the first set of levels with Linda (who unlocks at the start of the game) I'm
leveling the second character and will probably have her tackling the (much more difficult!) second part of the game
shortly.

