---
layout: post
title: "Rain Day"
date: 2019-09-16
tags: [ personal ]
---

After such a hot weekend it was a pleasure to wake up this morning to rain, covering both here in the mountains as well
as up in Mountain View. Particularly during fire season a little water from they sky is an unambiguous blessing. What
wasn't so fun, unfortunately, was the commute in to work, since I chose to drive on four wheels instead of risk a
motorcycle.

Of course, by the time I had exited the mountains in to Silicon Valley the rain had faded and there were large patches
of blue sky visible, so I was questioning my life choices. But a colleague reminded me that the first rain of the season
is a particularly slippery one, because this first rain loosens up a bunch of crap that's been building up over the
summer, making the roads extra slick. So it was probably for the best that I didn't ride in, but with almost 3 hours
spent round trip commuting I'm honestly not sure that I made the right call.

Recently I have found my patience for traffic evaporating, pushing the calculus far towards motorcycle riding in any
weather for a commute. However, as the rainy season starts, this commitment towards riding typically starts to slip. I'm
curious, if I made some adjustments to my gear, if I could hold through the winter to riding. We'll have to see. This
first rain day is a wakeup call to the fact that I need a plan to ride in the rain, I plan that I have yet to formulate.

Had a good chat with Bruno, the conductor of {% include tag_link.html tag="sclork" %} about a piece that the group is
starting to collaborate on. I hadn't been too excited for the outset of it but now that we've clarified some things I
think it's actually pretty cool. I'm delighted to see the group continue to evolve, and over time I hope we can add many
more pieces representing a broad range of styles and concepts. It is truly a privilege to be a part of that group and
work with folks on this stuff.

