---
layout: post
title: "Paint Day"
date: 2018-09-09
tags: [ personal, wh40k ]
---

2009 was a rough year for me, for various reasons. But one of the cool outcomes
was that I started getting back into a hobby that I had dabbled in during high
school but had to abandon because it required more cash than what I had spare
for it back then. I'm talking about
[Warhammer 40,000](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Warhammer_40,000), the tabletop
miniature war game. I mostly play
[Necrons](http://warhammer40k.wikia.com/wiki/Necrons), and after accepting a
position with Google and moving to California in 2010 I made a few friends who
I played with pretty frequently for a while.

I enjoy the time away from screens when working on miniatures. I found it
relaxing during those stressful times, and I still do. Also, it's fun to connect
with friends in person for a game, instead of talking to them over a mic while
playing something online.

I don't drink, so it's good to have a venue to do something with a friend that
doesn't require the whole of your attention, so you can chat, but also can
require some attention, so that you aren't just sitting there staring at one
another.

I love the 40K lore, and
[30K](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Horus_Heresy_%28novels%29) too. I've
read easily more than 50 novels set in that universe.

The hobby portion is quite fun, too, although looking back I think I got quite
caught up in trying to paint a bunch of minis to a standard that you see minis
being painted online that is probably beyond my talent to ever reach, and
undoubtedly well outside the amount of time that I have to commit to the
endeavor.

But ultimately my friends and I stopped playing. I think it was a variety of
factors. Collecting, assembling, and painting an army takes an enormous amount
of time. So one problem was that our armies stopped evolving, because although
each of us had planned (and likely bought) some evolutionary changes to our
armies, nobody made much progress in building them out, so often we would
be meeting to match the same army compositions as we had the prior (several)
times, somewhat diminishing the fun.

There were a couple of rules changes by Games Workshop during the years that we
were actively playing, too, that meant that some of our units, tactics, and
even overall vibe of our armies of choice really changed. It could feel like
a cash grab by GW. The game is complex, although subsequent iterations of the
rules have done much to simplify it, but another drag has been taking the time
to re-learn all of the new rules, and then have to learn how they have impacted
the balance and capabilities of units in your army.

For example, Necrons used to have a ridiculously overpowered heavy weapon called
the Monolith. This is back around 5th edition of the rules (now in 8th). Playing
it was a lot of fun and I didn't mind when it got nerfed pretty hard in the next
edition of the rules, because it felt pretty fair. But it also meant that I had
to try a bunch of the different new vehicles for a few games before I found
something that worked for me with the configuration of armies I routinely fought
against with my friends. And during those few games I mostly just got my ass
handed to me and it wasn't like the best fun ever.

Another problem is the length of time required to play a typical WH40K game. I
think we would average somewhere around 5-6 hours for a single game. So that's
a weekend day, with no time for anything else.

I don't think I'm alone in these complaints about the game, because Games
Workshop has been putting out a simplified and shortened version of the game
called
[Kill Team](https://www.polygon.com/2018/7/20/17592150/warhammer-40000-kill-team-games-workshop-miniature-figures).
This is a smaller game, which means that assembling and painting a new army
requires only a fraction of the time and cost of the full game. Playing a round
of Kill Team takes under an hour.

So for the first time in *literally years* my friends and I had a paint day
today. And I at least worked on some kill team minis. I'm looking forward to
our first match.

