---
layout: post
title: "Rampage, Duck Boobs"
date: 2018-10-12
tags: [ personal ]
---

Since we saw Skyscraper in theaters, Rampage is the last of the film series of
Dwayne Johnson movies we've been watching. I've been a little curious how they
adopted a
[coin-op video game from the 1980s](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rampage_%28video_game%29)
into a full-length action movie. But I did just see a giant wolf jump out of
the forest and total a helicopter. So I guess the answer is that they certainly
had respect for the original material.

Hilary and I have a phrase for situations like this, which is *Duck Boobs*.
There's a story here around
[Howard the Duck](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Howard_the_Duck_%28film%29),
which was that when some of Hilary's friends were watching the movie together.
In one of the opening scenes of the film there's an image of a female alien
duck, who has breasts. Someone in the audience objected to the idea that the
female alien duck would have breasts, because of course ducks aren't mammals,
don't secrete milk, and therefore don't have breasts. The joke was that it
seemed silly to object to breasts on a talking alien duck, like was that
really the thing that needed to be biologically accurate in this otherwise
completely ridiculous movie?

The joke might also indicate that a story is not internally consistent, sort of
breaking the rules of its own reality. But I was relatively pleased by Rampage.
Some pretty entertaining big action moments, and of course The Rock is an
experienced hand in these kinds of action movies. That guy is a pro at wearing
a dirty t-shirt in the jungle. I enjoyed how they managed to fit in a lot of
the game mechanics, like eating people to recover health, or throwing tanks
at helicopters. It's probably been at least a decade since I played the game,
so it was a fun reminder of the different things you could do in-game.

On the {% include tag_link.html tag="sclork" %} front I've only made a bit of
progress, been reading about different network time synchronization protocols.
Still need to develop a measurement of the synchronization accuracy, for
comparison of different algorithms. I have a vision of building a small bank of
RPis or other single-board computers, maybe 8-16 of them, and using that
environment to characterize the jitter of the `Utopia` `BeaconClock`.

I saw a fun article, that I can no longer locate, that pointed out that the
3B+ supports
[network booting](https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/hardware/raspberrypi/bootmodes/net_tutorial.md).

So one plan could be to PXE boot all of them off the network, then have them all
running scsynth and generating clock pulses. This also gets me around the whole
bummer thing I was worrying about, which is where differing hardware or OS
versions contribute to the latency in network and audio stacks, thus making
latency comparisons between different synchronization algorithms less certain.

First experiment is to go back into working on building that arm64 image for
the RPi3.
