---
layout: post
title: "Road To China Camp"
date: 2018-10-27
tags: [ personal ]
---


I forgot the power supply to my laptop. Which is funny, really, considering how
much power generation equipment I brought in order to make sure that I could
survive an extended creative jam session on the laptop, if so inspired. I’ve
got gasoline, diesel, and solar power generation options in tow here but nothing
to solve the “last mile problem” of getting that power actually in the laptop.

The drive down was uneventful, other than discovering, upon arrival, that some
of the pots and pans I had stowed carefully in the shelves under the sink had
spilled out on to the floor of the camper and were probably rattling around
there for the majority of the “off-road” portion of the drive.

I’m parked on a slope, one that seemed like a relatively minor incline when
parking, but inside the camper feels almost like a trip to the Mystery Spot, or
life in a funhouse. And I’m still not able to get the sink working, which is
mysterious because the shower and toilet flushing system seem to work just fine.

So, reading this, the impression is many lessons being learned here.

China Camp is beautiful, quiet. There was one other camp site occupied, with
tents up and equipment laid out, and I think I just heard them return for the
night. I got here probably about a half hour before the sun going down. Night
sounds are insects and acorns falling from the trees. The lights inside the
camper are bright, so bright that I worry I am being rude to my neighbors with
light pollution.

Why in gods name am I here? What am I doing out in the woods by myself? Is this
fun or rewarding in some way? Is this the validation of some theory I have about
the person that I am?

As predicted by the Verizon coverage map, there is no Internet connectivity
here. That’s something, but I’m not sure if it feels like a relief. It certainly
feels significant.

Not sure if it’s related but I’m already formulating odds around my staying a
second night.

