---
layout: post
title: "Rousted Early and Back Home"
date: 2018-10-28
tags: [ personal ]
---


Brief and uncomfortable night’s sleep due largely to the combination of thin
mattress and steep sideways incline. I found that I was tensing my body in
whatever direction I was sleeping in order to prevent rolling out of the bed and
on to the side of the camper. The camp next to me was up before dawn and woke me
up with the departure of their truck. I don’t plan to be here when they return.
As I write this I am waiting for dawn so I can see this place in proper daylight
before I leave it.

I don’t know how to prevent this but the camp site I’m at is under a tree that
is dropping acorns right now. Periodically one hits the roof of the camper and
even though I am now acclimated to it the sound it makes still makes me jump,
it’s a loud unexpected crack. I’m worried for the roof of the camper, although
I’m hoping that it’s the kind of thing that sounds a lot worse than it is.
Hoping.

Some lessons learned I think, for the next time:

  * The mission really was “laptop in the woods.” I don’t know why that was the
    mission but it really was the mission. If I had owned that from the
    beginning I think I would have been certain to bring that power supply.
  * I need a new mattress on this camper, the one I have right now is terrible.
  * Campsite 4 is really the campsite to try and nab here at China Camp.
  * Ravin’ Rabbids on the Switch is an underrated hit :).
  * Maybe don’t park under a tree with acorns? I think this is where campsite
    scouting really does come in to play, having an awareness of what the camp
    sites really are and what options might be best for my particular
    requirements.
  * The pots and pans I have are ridiculous. I’m not cooking a family meal for
    four. What I really need is a way to boil water efficiently. The backpacking
    meal I brought was delicious, and the coffee is fine.
  * Field recording gear would be key.

Another thought that occurred to me is that the camper has legs, and according
to the documentation it is intended that you would camp in the camper with the
legs down, so you could take the pickup truck and adventure in it while leaving
the camper deployed at the camp site. The legs could compensate for some of the
slope, even if I had no real intention of moving the truck, because loading this
thing is such a process. I left the plastic pads you are supposed to put under
the camper feet at home, thinking that I would not unload the camper so they
were unneeded. That could have really helped, I think, to level the camper, by
just lifting it above the bed of the truck far enough that I could clear the
truck bed and level the camper.

And that’s dawn(ish) outside. Time to get packin’.

