---
layout: post
title: "Winterizing"
date: 2018-11-20
tags: [ personal ]
---

With Hil still getting over a cold, and rain coming on Thursday, I made the
executive decision to pack the camper up for winter. I found a video on YouTube
that talked me through the process, a process that largely involved filling all
of the plumbing with pink antifreeze. Of course, this being a climate that
normally doesn't get below freezing the local RV facility has no antifreeze in
stock. The person on the phone recommended I drive to Tahoe to get some, that
being the nearest location that has both a large concentration of RVs and
sub-zero weather.

So I did get the camper off the truck, drain the hot water heater (after a trip
to the hardware store for the right socket), and drain the main water tank.
I've ordered some of the RV antifreeze and will draw it into the system per the
video instructions.

I'm learning that the thing about campers is that there's an entirely different
information system than what I'm used to here. There's almost no documentation
available online, the printed manuals are very general and don't cover specific
makes of campers, the telephone support from the place I bought it (in Salinas)
can only be so much help, YouTube coverage of this stuff is spotty at best. I
think the technical support options here are mostly an informal network of
folks at an RV camp with shared knowledge. Or maybe these campers aren't really
that complicated, or are more robust than I'm giving them credit for. Let's
hope. In any event, I have some pink antifreeze wending its way through the
parcel delivery system towards me, and a hope that this spring, after the rains,
I can begin again to head out into the wilds with my camper.

