---
layout: post
title: "CBD Oil"
date: 2018-10-02
tags: [ personal ]
---

Passing out of the wave of intense anxiety and self-loathing, slowly. Had my
first therapy session in a while today, after travel and other work disruptions
forced me to miss the past few weeks.

I swear sometimes I have to be told something multiple times before it sinks in.
If memory serves I think I first heard about cbd oil over a year ago, from a
chiropractor who was actually recommending it to control inflammation for my
knee, which still troubles me sometimes after running.

As a recovering addict, with marijuana as my drug of choice, I had a pretty
negative reaction to the idea of using a cannabis-derived product, for anything
really. I'm super glad that folks are exploring and discovering more medical
uses for marijuana, and I fully support legalization of marijuana for any
use, medicinal or recreational. But as someone who has literally had their life
taken over a few times by all-day-every-day pot smoking, and has experienced
some pretty bad negative consequences as a result (including flunking out of
grad school), I know for myself there is no option for moderate use of
marijuana for me, and I have to avoid it.

So since first hearing about it years ago, I think three or four people, all
trusted friends, loved ones, or advisers, have told me that cbd oil doesn't
contain THC and isn't psychoactive in the way that consumption of marijuana is.
There's also some interesting evidence that it is effective in controlling
anxiety. I also didn't know that I don't have to get a medical marijuana card
or anything, in fact cbd oil extracted from hemp is legal to order in all 50
states and can be shipped in the mail.

When my therapist suggested it as an avenue of exploration today it finally got
through to me that this might be a thing that, rather than representing a
retreat to the old dark days of walking through a bookstore and realizing that
it had probably been at least six months since I had had *a thought*, this
could be a viable avenue of exploration, and compatible with my goals around
continued sobriety.

Coming out of this giant funk around the last few weeks, and realizing that a
big source of this has been work-related anxiety, I'm wanting to find ways to
try to stay out of that black hole that I just get pulled in to from time to
time. It is cyclical for me, and this was a bad one. Time to focus on this,
make a concerted effort on trying to improve this particular aspect of my
mental health.

So, I've ordered some cbd pills from [Charlotte's Web](https://www.cwhemp.com/),
for delivery later this week. I'm excited to try it out.

