---
layout: post
title: "Pi Stack"
date: 2018-10-17
tags: [ sclork ]
---

![8 Pis in a Stack]({{ "assets/img/blog/2018-10-17-1.png" | absolute_url }})

The heat sinks, which I had originally forgotten to order, arrived today, so
I spent the evening building these two stacks of Raspberry Pis. None of them
have SD cards, and I'm waiting for the fanless rackmount computer to arrive
from Logic Supply to set up the DHCP host and server stuff for the PXE boot.
So, that will wait for the weekend probably.

As the RPis won't have X on them I'll need another setup to develop and test
the chat application, although I don't anticipate that requiring a ton of work
to develop. One of the Utopia demos, IIRC, is a minimalist chat application,
so certainly most if not all of the work here has already been done. Some
other features I can envision for the chat application take advantage of the
code sharing tools I also saw on the Utopia demo site. It might be really cool
to allow folks to share code, and let people pick the code right out of the
chat window and execute it from right there.

The hardware build tonight was relatively uneventful. I've seen some complaints
in reviews online about parts not fitting, but although there are some obvious
not-square angles in the build by and large the towers seem mechanically solid
and hold together well. I went with two towers of four high each, as opposed
to one 8 unit tall tower, to avoid it being unstable and easy to tip over, and
I'm glad that I did. Particularly given that I work mostly out of the living
room, which can have up to 4 animals canoodling in it at once, and probably
only one of whom (Storm) has any compunctions against jumping up on my living
room desk, that's an almost certain disaster avoided.

Next steps are to get the server going with Gentoo and dnsmasq, then start
fussing with a PXE boot of the image built on the original Pi. Last I checked
the server had left Shrewsbury, MA around 3:30 AM on Saturday, and is expected
here in Santa Cruz on Friday. I doubt I'm really going to have time to look
at it until Saturday anyway.

What time I do have between now and then I can focus on bringing the chat app
up. But it's exciting to see some hardware take shape!

