---
layout: post
title: "No Net"
date: 2018-09-07
tags: [ personal ]
---

I remember the time when [On the Road](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/On_the_Road)
made its way like a scourge through the literati of my high school colleagues.
I couldn't connect to the characters, finding their actions to be selfish and
irresponsible. This is a kind of fun that I don't really want to have - relying
on the kindness and good will of others as some sort of backstop or safety
net for my own needs. Like, don't worry about having enough money to get your
next meal, some kind soul out there will eventually notice that you are hungry
and share. And, when you're white, young, male, educated, able-bodied, healthy,
and at least somewhat reasonably attractive, I suppose this is a reasonable
assumption.

There are too many people in the world who are homeless, who do live not only
with [precarity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Precarity) but with genuine
peril, people with no concrete idea where there next meal is coming from, who
are also behaving far more responsibly and reliably than the folks in that book.

These privileged plays at poverty, including to a certain extent
[Burning Man](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Burning_Man) have always struck that
sour note with me, making it impossible for me to enjoy any sense of freedom
or joy in them.

The other day Hil and I were talking about a friend of hers and an acquaintance
of mine who had always disoriented me with her profound kindness, even to
relative strangers. It occurred to us just how rare that is - genuine kindness
to a stranger, with no *quid pro quo* agenda. Showing that kindness is a kind
of vulnerability that I'm far from being able to expose most days, myself.
I think there's a real, genuine concern of being exploited by doing that. I have
a concern of being taken for a fool. But perhaps it is better to be seen as a
kind fool than a wise grinch.

So I've always tried to work to pay my own way. I bring my own means. And I
understand how fortunate I am to not have to rely on the kindness of others.
And, when the terror recedes a little bit, I try to extend a few kindnesses of
my own. But [This is America](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VYOjWnS4cMY). If
I get seriously ill and can't work I don't have any illusions about what that
means. There is no net. At the end of the day, push comes to shove, I'll have
nobody to rely on but myself. I suppose celebrating that gives others some weird
sense of joy. For me it gets me out of bed and back to work.

