---
layout: post
title: "Shakespeare In The Park"
date: 2018-08-31
tags: [ personal ]
---

Among the big Santa Cruz attractions we haven't done since we moved here years
ago, besides going to the
[Mystery Spot](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mystery_Spot), which happens to a
short bicycle ride from our house, and the other is go to see a production by
[Shakespeare Santa Cruz](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shakespeare_Santa_Cruz).

While I can't say we are likely to remedy the first any time soon last night
Hilary and I attended a performance of Romeo and Juliet, under the trees and
starlit sky of Upper DeLaveaga park.

![view from picnic area nearby]({{ "/assets/img/blog/2018-08-31-1.png" | absolute_url }})

Hil and I always joke about how we know we've hit the mark on an event when we
are among the youngest people in the room by probably 20 years or so. This was
definitely an older crowd, with many obvious regulars circulating and
reconnecting before the show.

![parking sign]({{ "/assets/img/blog/2018-08-31-2.png" | absolute_url }})

The set was beautiful, minimalist wood and steel. We took a selfie in front of
it before being informed by a polite volunteer that the union negotiations
prohibited photography of the stage, set, or performance. Word.

This was closing weekend for the season and they were renting blankets at the
door for a reason. It's funny, no matter how long I live in Northern California
I am still periodically surprised by how cold it can get, particularly at
night. There were plumes of steam coming from the mouths of the performers,
lending a certain authenticity to the chilly second act of Romeo and Juliet.

Stating the obvious, but damn that play is a bummer.

On the drive home Hil and I hypothesized that the reason we tend to end up at
so many events with an older set of folks is that we don't have kids, and we
don't drink, so we've skipped directly to that "empty nest" phase of life,
without ever having filled the nest. The "kids room" at our house has always
been the band room. We like it that way.
