---
layout: post
title: "Moana"
date: 2018-09-26
tags: [ personal ]
---

Got over the hill for an hour before Hil called me with a surprise request that,
best honored, meant I would spend the rest of the day working from home. Glad
I took the motorcycle today to work. I'm noticing that the 17 northbound near
Lexington Reservoir has become increasingly congested and most mornings is
either really slow or completely stopped. I'm getting worried that's a trend
that won't be going away any time soon, but being able to split lanes does
a lot to help.

We grabbed dinner over at [Lillian's](https://www.lilliansitaliankitchen.com/)
which is some ridiculously amazing Italian food. The menu's a bit limited for
a {% include tag_link.html tag="vegan" %} but this is the kind of Italian
restaurant where even the very basic things like Spaghetti Marinara are amazing,
so I'm usually happy to go.

Then it was home and time for me to tackle more perf-related homework. But the
Dwayne Johnson movie of the evening was Moana. I'll go on record here and state
that I cannot ignore that movie, it is an emotional powerhouse for me to watch
from start to finish, so progress on the homework was slow.

Lin-Manuel Miranda can write the hell out of a soundtrack. Credit to Hilary for
introducing me to him, particularly for
[Hamilton](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamilton_%28musical%29). For her
birthday present last year we went and caught the Hamilton tour at the historic
[Pantages Theatre](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pantages_Theatre_%28Hollywood%29).
I don't normally go for musicals but after seeing that I can say with confidence
that Hamilton represents one of the monumental artistic achievements that I
will get to experience in my lifetime.

Maybe tomorrow I might have more time to look at non-work stuff but honestly
the way the next few weeks look like they are playing out that's feeling
pretty unlikely.
