---
layout: post
title: "Foie Gras"
date: 2019-01-10
tags: [ personal, vegan ]
---

I'm definitely gonna be "that {% include tag_link.html tag="vegan" %}" for a
minute so feel free to pass, caveat emptor.

We had a partner dinner tonight, at a fancy Las Vegas restaurant. There was a
$5000 cheeseburger on the menu, no joke, although I think the vast majority
of the price probably came from the fancy bottle of wine that came with it.

Multiple items on the menu included
[Foie Gras](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foie_gras). Alright, cool, whatever,
I'm certainly not going to order it, and like seriously it's none of my business
what others order, although thinking about what the experience of the geese must
be like does make me sad. So much of meat eating is about denial, denial of
what I think all of us probably intuit on some level, that these animals are
aware on some level, and do suffer terribly, before they are killed.

But anyways, whatever, my supportive business team partners had specifically
selected this restaurant in part because they were assured that there were
vegan options available. And while literally *nothing* on the menu seemed like
it might be readily prepared vegan, I'm usually able to work with the waitstaff
to figure something out.

But the service person helping us out, when I asked about what might be vegan,
came back with a hard no. That's right, nothing on the menu was vegan, or
could be prepared vegan. Not even the bread, as far as they were concerned.
When I pressed they did offer to serve me a Cesar salad with no dressing or
toppings. So, basically, some lettuce in a bowl.

I was polite, but privately my mind was blown. What I felt the service person
was telling me was that while shoving a tube down an animals throat and almost
drowning them in food for a fortnight or longer before murdering them is all
well and good, god forbid somebody go to the trouble of cooking a vegetable in
something that isn't made up from boiling the mutilated body parts of a bird
(chicken stock) or the condensed and fermented bodily secretions of a cow
(butter).

They were eventually able to figure something out, and there might even be a
small probability that there wasn't any spit in there.

