---
layout: post
title: "Snow Day"
date: 2019-02-05
tags: [ personal, sclork ]
---

I remember when I moved to the Bay Area in 2010 my neighbors were a retired
couple. The husband had worked in Silicon Valley as an electrical engineer, the
most common type of engineer in the first wave of tech in the valley. His wife
was a native of Campbell, the town where I was staying, and had spent her
entire life from cradle to retirement in and around the greater San Jose area.

She remembered when Silicon Valley had been some of the most fertile farmland
in California, before we paved it all over and built the giant concrete, glass,
and steel edifices to capitalism and progress that now crowd up against the
houses and freeways, only making room for the occasional tree.

I remember asking her about the winters, did it ever snow? And her saying in
her whole life she only had memory of seeing snow once in the valley, some time
in the late 1960s. "If you want to see snow," she said, "go to Tahoe. You won't
see it here."

So this morning, as I drove my truck through the haze and fog with fat
snowflakes sticking to my windshield on the summit of the Santa Cruz mountains
on highway 17, I was thinking of her. The beautiful redwoods and pines that
I have admired on every commute day for 5+ years now were dusted with snow.
On one of the scenic turn offs I saw a car pulled as far away from the highway
as possible, not recovering from a bad spinoff or accident, but rather so that
the kids in the car could enjoy a snowball fight, which they clearly were.

I'm happy and proud to have lived in the Bay Area long enough to bear witness
to such an event. And maybe, thanks to climate change, it may become a great
deal more frequent than it used to be. Or it may never happen in my lifetime
again. Either way, it was a special moment.

We had to take our cat Chima to the ER yesterday evening, she may have had a
cardiac episode. We returned late this evening with her, so another evening
where I will have no or very little time to make progress on the work I have
pending for {% include tag_link.html tag="sclork" %}, let alone furthering
the preparation of the patches for this coming Saturday night show. I'm
hoping the balance of the week will have more room in the evenings. On the plus
side, our cat seems well, with perhaps a few additional prescriptions she may
be on long-term. So totally worth it, from that perspective. Wishing her good
health for the rest of her (hopefully long) life.

