---
layout: post
title: "Hard Rain and Work Day"
date: 2019-01-16
tags: [ personal, sclork, kfjc ]
---

It's been raining steady and hard for a few days now in Santa Cruz. The commute
home started to remind me of the winter of 2017, when the highway connecting
Santa Cruz with Silicon Valley, highway 17, was out of commission for weeks due
to multiple mudslides. Work on the mudslides was further complicated by the
unfortunate accidental death of one of the people working on the repairs,
causing the repairs to be halted (very appropriately so) while folks
investigated the work site to ensure that it was safe.

Hil called me on my drive home to let me know that the 17 was closed due to a
mudslide. So I fired up Wayze, with memories of a few particularly bad commutes
from that epic winter rattling around in my head. Fortunately I was routed over
to Soquel San Jose and was able to get home without much further incident.

Aaron, the temporary leader of the San Jose Samba group, sent me a link to an
online store out of Portland called [Go Samba](https://gosamba.net/). I was
able to pick up a Samba-style snare as well as a strap. I'm hoping it will
arrive by Saturday so I can practice on the new gear. I'm also hoping to go
grab a practice pad so I can run through the drills that Aaron showed me last
night, so I don't show up on Saturday completely unpracticed.

Reading that last paragraph back, I can tell that I'm pretty excited about
rehearsals on Saturday!

I'm doing a radio fill-in at {% include tag_link.html tag="kfjc" %} tomorrow
morning, for the first time in a while. Looking at the traffic conditions right
now, I'm wondering how early I should get up. I usually get up at 4am for a show
like this, but if 17 is closed it might have to be even earlier, which seems
excessive. Still grateful for this rain, even if the rain too, may seem
excessive.

