---
layout: post
title: "CMake"
date: 2019-03-01
tags: [ personal, supercollider, sclork, scintillator ]
---

Took a break from hacking on {% include tag_link.html tag="supercollider" %}
code to look in to building support for the
[WiiMote](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wii_Remote) on
{% include tag_link.html tag="sclork" %} projects. I guess back in the day
SuperCollider supported WiiMotes directly but that code has been deprecated
for some time. At the moment we're using Pure Data to talk to the WiiMote, then
translate the WiiMote data to OSC. On the SuperCollider side Bruno wrote some
code to bind the WiiMote control data to ```Bus``` objects inside SC, then
folks can use them to control ```Synth``` sounds.

It's a toy project but I thought it would be a good exercise to build a
simple C++ binary that transforms the Bluetooth HID messages to OSC directly,
basically using the tiny part of Pure Data functionality we need. Yes,
replacing something we already have, but doing it in a simpler way, and building
some support classes in SuperCollider itself, perhaps in an isolated Quark, to
make building things powered by WiiMotes (or any other HID peripheral) more
tractable, without polluting the main SuperCollider source with a bunch of
Linux-specific dependencies.

Another attraction, besides returning to my still-favorite programming language
C++ (even after all that quite enjoyable SC hacking), is the opportunity to
build some components that would be reusable for the
{% include tag_link.html tag="scintillator" %} project I've been itching to get
back to.

One of the things that I've been meaning to learn for a long time, but have
bounced off a few times, is CMake. I know enough Makefile syntax to make a
horrid mess, as can be seen in my {% include tag_link.html tag="vcsmc" %}
source code. I don't know why but I've always felt a bit cranky about CMake,
despite having worked on a few projects professionally that were based on it.
It just seemed excessive to have yet another build system, and I didn't like
how Kitware charges money for the documentation in the form of the manual for
CMake. I've bought that manual, as well, and didn't find it particularly useful,
either. Seemed like, at the time, kind of a racket. Everybody's gotta earn a
living somehow, however.

It was actually having to work with SuperCollider source code that turned me
around on CMake. I've found better documentation online for the build system
than the last time I looked at it a few years ago. And, to be fair, the last
time I looked at CMake I was trying to get it to cross compile for ARM, with
a bunch of other crazy dependencies, and I think trying to learn the CMake
worldview by writing a cross-compiler was probably why I found the build system
difficult to learn. Just too many things to figure out at once.

I've been pleasantly suprised this evening to start work on a CMake-based build
system for [hid-osc](https://github.com/lnihlen/hid-osc). With only a little
tinkering I was able to get the OSC library I want to use building, and made
some additional headway with a simple demo logging executable.

It's good to be back in compiled language land. Feeling like I'll enjoy my
stay.

