---
layout: post
title: "Sick Day"
date: 2019-03-25
tags: [ personal, scintillator ]
---

Woke up feeling exhausted, totally run down, so thought it might be better to
spend the day closer to home. I pushed a few emails around and did some
light-duty stuff but today was a sick day.

Every time I'm resting up like this I am reminded that there are currently no
legal means to watch Murder, She Wrote online. This is a real lost opportunity.
Fortunately, the complete DVD series, 63 discs, is winding its way to me through
the mail as we speak. So the next sick day I'm well covered.

For this one I slept in, then played some Hollow Knight, then worked a bit on
{% include tag_link.html tag="scintillator" %}. I've been getting in my head a
bit about the formatting and organization of the code. The fact is I'm feeling
rusty about my C++ programming, and I'm learning a new graphics API. I know a
lot of incredibly smart, experienced, and capable software engineers that have
real expertise in both of these fields. So writing code in a public repository
can feel incredibly intimidating, particularly when it's coming together so
awkwardly.

For the style, I had been trying to develop against
[Google C++ style](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html), which was
the last formal style guidelines that I've developed C++ against. But it looks
like the emerging C++ style guide for SuperCollider is going to be a bit
different. So I've ended up with some hybrid deal where I'm using 4 spaces for
indentation but keeping most other things like they are at Google, until I can
grab a copy of the ```clang-format``` style configuration that Brian has been
writing for SuperCollider. I'm secretly hoping I can convince folks on the
SuperCollider team to adopt the K&R style curly-brace-on-the-same-line style
that I have internalized at Google, since the other style now just looks super
weird to me. Oh well, worse case I can keep the next-line brace style when
working on SC code, and keep same-line brace style on Scintillator.

In any event, I was layering more and more configuration into ```int main()```,
which was getting to be a confusing mess, so I started breaking pieces into
encapsulation objects and just did general cleanup on the overall structure
of the program. I *am* getting to be pretty certain that the synth program
will need to live well beyond the lifetimes of individual windows. But between
some light reformatting and then regoranizing the code that was pretty much
it for my productivity today. I'm starting in on the swap chains, and then
next will be configuration a graphics pipeline.

Some early features I also want to bring in, after (of course) getting to
initial pixel lightup

  * Screenshots on command - any render target should be able to copy back the
    current render (without impacting the swap chain latency) for saving into
    a .png file.
  * Unit testing framework - I'm thinking
    [cppunit](https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/cppunit/), which has
    been around for a long time and I thought was no longer under development,
    but it looks like it's being maintained by the LibreOffice folks, which is
    rad.
  * [gflags](https://github.com/gflags/gflags) support for command line parsing.
  * Bringing in the aforementioned ```clang-format``` as a build target.

Starting to get pretty excited about this project! Now I can stress about
finding the time to commit to it.

