---
layout: post
title: "Back at It"
date: 2019-04-08
tags: [ personal, sclork ]
---

First day back at work after a full week off. I think the break was just about
right. A lot can change at Google in a week but I felt like it was still
tractable, like missing a few episodes of a familiar and well-loved TV show.
Like maybe a couple of plot points that I'll need some clues on but largely
still able to mostly follow along.

It was fun to reconnect with the folks I chatted with today, plus we had a new
person starting on the team, Nooglers we call them, and it's always nice to
catch a bit of the Google shiny from somebody new to the company.

But, particularly with Hilary out of town, that was pretty much my day. Up at
5:30, left for work around 7, back-to-back all day, leaving a bit before 6.
Home at 7, leftovers for dinner, processed some email, then the dishes that had
been piling up took me about an hour and a half to get through.

There had been plans to have an informal {% include tag_link.html tag="sclork" %}
rehearsal this evening but I got a last-minute text that the room reservation
fell through. Given my other obligations this evening it was probably for the
best, but still a bummer for our first attempted rehearsal with Bruno out on
parental leave for a stretch.

Now watching some British cooking show where families compete on Netflix and
it's already time for bed. So all things in balance, a week with an
embarrassment of riches in free time, and now the opposite.

