---
layout: post
title: "Net Net"
date: 2019-04-24
tags: [ personal, supercollider, scintillator ]
---

Busy day at work. Then there was some discussion on the {% include tag_link.html tag="supercollider" %} slack dev channel,
something along the lines of "well whatever happened to the code reformatting effort?" This was the boot in the butt to
hurry up and finish off a first draft of the C++ style guidelines I had promised to help write. I think the overall vibe
of the conversation around these guidelines has been somewhat tense at times, and so given the already emotional days
I've been going through at work there just hasn't been a lot of "gas in the tank" when I get home to hack on something
similarly encumbered.

I do think one of the benefits of getting a bit older is that sometimes you've had more opportunities to learn
resilience. Maybe also there's enough self awareness to know when I'm genuinely hurt about something, and to honor that
too, but to understand that most stings don't last too long. Some good advice that I think came from the business
self-help book Crucial Conversations, is that a lot of times when folks are upset in a discussion it's because they
feel they have been disrespected. I have found this to be useful advice for chilling out an argument, by trying to
find the miscommunication (or genuine error) that led to the other party feeling disrespected, and clarifying. It's
impressive sometimes how quickly people can calm down if you can get to that part of the disagreement and resolve that
first. It makes the rest of it feel like 1000 times easier.

I can flip it also, in that there have been times when I'm feeling upset myself about something but can practice some
self talk and end up calm by trying to identify the perceived disrespect, and working to get clarity around that.
Note this isn't passivity; sometimes people are being disrespectful and should be held accountable for that. Sometimes,
anger is the most appropriate response to those situations. But often no disrespect is intended or even contextually
possible. So why get pissed?

A lot of oblique talking about situations at work and in an open source development community, which may not make for the
most interesting reading. Just thinking out loud, really.

So I did get through that first draft of the style guide, which didn't leave a ton of time for work on
{% include tag_link.html tag="scintillator" %}. I did notice that Google is now recommending Vulkan tutorials to me
for reading, probably based on all of my recent search history in trying to teach myself this tech. So on my phone
at lunch I found a cool [Memory Allocator](https://github.com/GPUOpen-LibrariesAndSDKs/VulkanMemoryAllocator) for Vulkan
which I am planning on bringing in to the project shortly. I agonized over it a bit for a minute, thinking that one of
the huge advantages I'm gaining from Vulkan in the increased control over memory allocations (at the cost of more
complexity), so why would I surrender this to a library? But ultimately my goal is to build a video synthesizer for
SuperCollider, not a memory allocator for Vulkan, and this library helps me get closer to that goal. Besides, if I
discover a use case for memory that the library doesn't support, I can always start in on my own solution at that point,
in which my opinion about this topic will be hopefully much more informed. So, I will know exactly what I need to build,
instead of where I am right now, which is some vague dissatisfaction with the current memory allocation and controls
that I have built following the trusty Vulkan Tutorial.

I sign off with some hopes that I'll be able to report more progress in the next few days.

