---
layout: post
title: "Birthday"
date: 2019-04-02
tags: [ personal, vegan, kfjc, scintillator ]
---

I'm another year older today. I woke up, worked out, farted around the house
for a bit while Hilary got her hair done, then we headed over the hill for
Ethiopian for lunch. The plan was to go into San Francisco for an early dinner
at Shizen, that incredible {% include tag_link.html tag="vegan" %} sushi
restaurant. We had some time to kill so went over to Amoeba and I trawled
through the experimental section for a while. I grabbed a few interesting titles,
and Hilary got some CDs which she's thinking might work for an opera special
she's considering proposing for Mayhem at {% include tag_link.html tag="kfjc" %}.
Dinner was outstanding but left me uncomfortably full.

I think I might want to consider how to restructure my birthday now that
{% include tag_link.html tag="oort_cloud" %} is basically defunct. They had been
kind of the anchor for my birthday parties for the past few years. I got a few
texts from friends, and spoke to my mom briefly on the phone, but otherwise I
had the day with Hilary.

Not even much time for {% include tag_link.html tag="scintillator" %} work today.
I added a few of the methods that parallel the behavior in ```UGen``` that I
discussed yesterday, and figured out that I could add extension methods to
base SuperCollider objects like ```Object``` and ```AbstractFunction```, meaning
that I can keep Scintillator behavior confined to the Quark while still adding
the needed functionality to the core system. It's very important to me that
Scintillator remain as an *optional* extension to the SuperCollider program,
hopefully it's easy enough to install and useful enough that it is an obvious
call on most people's part to use it, once it's ready. But I'd like to keep
that separation intact.

Tomorrow I put Hilary on a plane and it is my intention to spend the evening
productively hacking on Scintillator, or perhaps lounging with the dogs and
watching TV. We shall see what tempts me more.

In terms of my birthday I don't have a ton of feelings. I think for a long time
I was under a lot of pressure from my family to act and think a certain way
about my birthday. While that pressure has largely gone away I'm not sure
anything has really come in to take its place. I guess my feeling is generally
that I spend most days, most of the time, doing things that I want, or at least
things that I want to do in principal, so I don't require some special
date-based indulgence. I try to live my best life every day. It feels nice to
receive affection on my birthday, but it does every other day too. So
bah humbug? Or maybe more just meh?

It was as good an excuse as any to take some time off after the perf-related
wipeout that was my last month. That's the real treat here, the time. Hoping
to make the most of it for what's left.

