---
layout: post
title: "The Long View"
date: 2019-04-12
tags: [ personal ]
---

Took kind of a hit on Wednesday at work and I think I'm still feeling the after
effects. But it was the kind of thing that, even in the depth of it, I wasn't
so sure if the conclusions I was drawing in the moment would make as much sense
once some of those feelings had passed.

But in that context, my expectations for myself this weekend are pretty low.
Hilary comes back Monday, so it'll be my last weekend on my own for a little
while. My desire is to play a bunch of video games, maybe push a bit further on
{% include tag_link.html tag="scintillator" %}, but only if it feels like fun.

Normally Hilary drives the TV, choosing to watch what content she wants to
watch. I dip in and out. It's been fun to pick the programming, sometimes just
listening to music but, like when I'm in a hotel room by myself, I like having
the TV on in the background, the voices in conversation even when I'm not
listening, somehow make the space feel less empty. TV as sonic space filling
device.

Netflix has figured out my predilection for cooking shows, and I now have a
steady stream of them drip feeding into the otherwise-overquiet house. The one
on now, The Final Table, ain't half bad. I like people being kind to one another
while being creative, and I like food, so it's got that going for it. I don't
know why creative acts have to be subjected to competition and time limits. That
part feels exterior to me, like it's just not really needed. But I suppose the
structure is necessary to turn what could probably just be a hot mess of "things
happening" into a finished media project.

I do have a cool new keyboard, an [ergonomic one](https://matias.ca/ergopro/pc/)
from keyboard maker Matias. I've noticed the trend, likely set by Apple in their
MacBook Pros, towards increasingly lower-profile keys. It's ultimately a big
part of why I stopped using my old MacBook Pro, well that and the lack of support
for either Vulkan (because Metal) or CUDA (on most of the Macs, thanks to the
dearth of newer Nvidia Macs).

Long story short, I'm liking the clicky clacky of the new keyboard, and the
comfortable separation of my hands. I've adjusted to allow for a bit of external
rotation, and some of the pain that I've been feeling creeping in to my wrists
is gone. So I'm feeling stoked to do some typing!

