---
layout: post
title: "In-Seat Power"
date: 2019-05-25
tags: [ personal ]
---

This is a long blog entry, about nothing very much in particular, only to pass the time.

My ambitions and hopes to make a great deal of progress on adding emoji to the chat program for {% include tag_link.html
tag="sclork" %} were undermined by the simple fact that the Delta airplane I am on, that is taking 10 hours to fly from
London to Salt Lake City, has a broken in-seat power system. I am told that it is a known issue. So while on the flight
out to France my hopes of productivity on my laptop were dashed by the complete lack of space to even attempt to open
the lid, it seems the flight back, while marginally more roomy, has been disrupted by a known hardware issue in
combination with my laptop battery, which on this System76 laptop (that I paid over $3k for) lasts just under 2 hours.
Take a 10 hour flight, subtract 2 hours of laptop battery, and an additional 45 minutes or so for taxi/takeoff + lunch,
and you will find me here, typing this blog on my iPad.

I know, I know, first world problems. But (and it pains me to say it) on this trip, on several occasions, I have sorely
missed my MacBook Pro. Perhaps absence makes the heart grow fonder but besides also being thinner and lighter,
particularly when you add in the weight of the charger, which is requisite with the System76 as detailed above, I could
have sworn I would get more than 2 hours of battery life out of that thing, particularlywhen tamped down to the minimum
consumption levels.

But then I think about the TouchBar and how they put the escape key on there, which for a Vim user is sort of like
jabbing yourself in the leg with the fork every time you want to edit a word. Yes, I could remap my escape key to caps
lock or something but I guess when I'm paying premium prices for a laptop I kind of expect it to come to me in certain
ways. Or like maybe have a working escape key. I also remember having to  reorganize the TouchBar on many apps to remove
as many icons as possible from it because my fingers would frequently brush up against it and activate some function or
another on it, for example frequently bookmarking whatever random webpage I was currently looking at on Chrome.

I also don't miss the mechanical keyboard, and in fact would say that the TouchBar was annoying the keyboard was just a
dealbreaker. I never was able to live with it long enough to get crumbs or other such in there in a way that would make
a key stop working but this makes obvious sense when looking at the design and I would admit that if I do return to the
MBP being my daily driver it will only be a matter of time. The short throw makes it feel like your poor fingers are
just hammering away on some unforgiving chunk of metal, which is exactly what they are doing. The keyboard lacks joy, I
feel.

It's surprising that a company that gets so many details right, like long battery life and quick wakeup from sleep, all
of the little things that make these computers that I will use quite heavily acceptable for long-term use, would so
completely miss the point on basic usability issues around the keyboard and TouchBar.  I'd almost rather think that they
are being very intentional and deliberate, and it's just very much the case now that *I'm no longer their target market*
for these computers. Or, perhaps having a thinner (and likely lighter) laptop that results from having a short-throw
keyboard was judged by the Apple folks to be worth the decrease in comfort and durability on the keyboard. In reality,
Apple is so far out in front of everyone else with these laptops, as I am reminded every single time I try a different
laptop, that they can perhaps afford to make a few controversial or experimental decisions, perhaps to help ensure they
aren't trapped in a local minima. Perhaps on the other side of uncomfortable keyboard there's some usability utopia that
Apple will arrive at in a few more design iterations.

Perhaps. I hear some good things about the Microsoft Surface these days. I had an opportunity to work with one at work,
but this would have been several years ago, and my perception of them then was generally aligned with the consensus that
they were a pretty far distance from optimal on almost all categories - too hot, too expensive, too heavy, too slow, too
small. Recent word is they've come a very long distance and the Surface Pro 6 is really something to examine. I would of
course be strongly tempted to put Linux on it, and then we're back in the realm where we are right now with the System76
laptop, which never reliably indicates the battery or wifi connectivity status, doesn't sleep or wake gracefully, etc.
All the little details. But I still very much have the attitude that Windows is for gaming, if you want to do some
serious computing you need a POSIX-compliant (ish) system. Although, oddly, Visual Studio used to be my favorite IDE.
There's some other PC laptops out there, like the Lenovo ThinkPads or some of the Dells, that promise Linux support out
of the box. There's even one or two that I was looking at that had LTE connectivity, but of course no Linux support for
the LTE feature.

This iPad Pro has a lot going for it, if you disregard the fact that development of a cmake-based C++ application
(outside of SSHing to a real computer) is an impossibilitiy. Even paying for LTE connectivity, anything requiring
persistant low-latency access to the Internet is not reliable. Of course, having access to a compiler on these machines
would break Apple's walled garden philosophy. I hear rumor of someday a hybrid type of Apple portable that will run both
iOS and macOS binaries, perhaps it will be open enough that one could run Xcode (meaning hopefully homebrew) on it.
There are also recent indications, however, that Apple is making it harder to run unsigned code on their platform, and
the licensing fees spell a concern for the viability and health of open source software on their platform.

I am to understand that it is now possible to run Linux programs on a Chromebook, or at least in developer mode right
now. While most Chromebook hardware is anemic at best, as it is aimed at lower price points, that can mean longer
battery lives and lighter weight. The lower prices ain't too shabby either, meaning I might be able to pick one up
sooner without having to skip some of the field recording gear I'm dreaming of. Come to think of it, I replaced my work
MacBook Pro with a Pixelbook a while ago and felt that was a real step forward. I got a keyboard back that I like, the
battery life is sufficient that I stopped thinking about battery on that device a while ago which is as good as it gets,
really. The performance is a little pokey but given the size, weight, and stamina of the machine it doesn't feel
*unfair*, like sure I get it I'm not carrying around a workstation, but it's there when I need it. Of course the work
computers are locked down pretty tight, and I don't normally use work computers for things outside of work, so I haven't
even investigated if I can install Linux applications on that machine. I *have* run Android applications on the
Pixelbook and while many of the apps aren't built with that form factor in mind they work just fine. It's good for a
quick pop in to Instragram, for instance, but for anything more serious I'm usually going to pull out my phone.

I guess this trip has made it obvious to me that I'm in the market for a new portable. It needs to have a kickin'
battery life and a smaller form factor, because I'm going to want to carry it everywhere, and I'm willing to sacrifice
some performance for those things. Besides WiFi, LTE is a very-nice-to-have, I would drop this iPad from my phone bill
in a hot minute to replace it with this new laptop. I want to be able to run Chrome, bash, git, cmake, clang, and vim on
it. About the Pixelbook 2 I know exactly as much as someone who doesn't work at Google, and that's the truth. But if one
comes out in October that ticks many of these boxes I could see that becoming the thing I lug around.

This quest represents the constant desire I nowadays feel to *make something*, to be building something. Even if it is
just a boring blog entry about laptops.
