---
layout: post
title: "Homecoming"
date: 2019-05-26
tags: [ personal, supercollider, sclork ]
---

After arriving back in San Jose airport, I grabbed an early dinner with Hilary and then came back home, for the first
time in three weeks. It felt great to see my pets and sit on my own couch in my own living room. I stayed up as late as
possible but still ended up turning in before 9.

Although I woke up again at 4am I was able to fall asleep again until a bit before 6, when our doggies decided it was
time for the family to get up. I feel like I'm about 75% of the way there today, and I'm very glad that I also have
tomorrow off from work. I moved back on to the MacBook Pro, going to give this computer a spin for a bit as my primary
development machine. I have to say that the font rendering is such a luxury to return to. Even with the pros at System76
tweaking the Pop! OS font rendering to professional standards I think things just look so much better (and easier to
read) on the MacBook. This isn't just a question of display quality, either, I'm comparing Apples to apples (hah!) on
the same Samsung 4K external display.

There was a {% include tag_link.html tag="supercollider" %} developer meeting today, which ran slightly over 2 hours. We
meet on Skype, and everyone is welcome to join, from users just beginning with the software to senior developers. One of
the larger talking points was a discussion around how destructive the recent conflict has been to the overall health of
the development community. I was encouraged to see some growing awareness around these issues and a genuine interest in
helping things to get better, but I'm not sure folks know how much work they are signing up for. I think everyone was in
agreement that we should land the changes around formatting first, before making any announcements about changes in
standards for community behavior.

There is a pattern of emotional abuse in the software engineering industry. I think in older times it was tolerated much
more. People accepted abusive behavior, particularly from highly intelligent and productive software engineers. But it's
never OK to abuse someone else, and it doesn't matter who you are or what contributions you may have made to a project
or to the software world in general. If I leave any legacy in the software engineering world, I would hope that it would
be that the industry is slightly less tolerant of abuse, and hopefully slightly more inclusive of others. That's why
I've resumed work on SuperCollider, and that's certainly the impact I would like to make on that community, if I can.

After the dev meeting I cooked us lunch, which had extras so we reheated it for dinner. Most of my productivity today
was focused around bringing the Mac back up to speed as a suitable development laptop. I also spent some time getting
re-acquainted with the Xbox One. I regret not taking my Switch with me on the trip, and have been feeling somewhat in a
video game deficit for some time.

I *did* mess about a bit with the key bindings for the SCLOrkChat program. I'm hoping to bring a version of the chat
that supports emoji. The next rehearsal of {% include tag_link.html tag="sclork" %} is a week from Monday, so I've got a
bit of time. Hopefully tomorrow my head is screwed on a bit more and I can make some headway on that.

But for now it's coming up on 9pm again and I'm feeling like it will soon be time for bed again.

