---
layout: post
title: "Difficult Discussions"
date: 2019-05-28
tags: [ personal, chickens, supercollider ]
---

Back in the Mountain View office today for work, for the first time in 3 weeks. After a break and a chance to get some
serious perspective, I was struck by the number of challenging discussions, on a variety of different topics, I face in
a given day at work. Sometimes they are back-to-back, every half hour. It makes we want to resume my study of Aikido,
just practicing staying grounded and emotionally centered through the whirlwind of a typical day.

On the way home I stopped by the Home Depot to get a brooder box for the {% include tag_link.html tag="chickens" %}.
After a lot of looking around online at various options, including some ridiculously over-the-top (for my purposes)
veterinary models, I settled on just buying a large plastic tub from Home Depot, with the intention of cutting a large
hole in the lid and covering it with hardware cloth, mostly to prevent the cat from jumping in to the brooder box if I
somehow fail to keep her out of my office, where I'm planning on keeping the chicks. Hilary realized that it will
probably be some months before we start getting eggs from our feathered friends, but I do believe that by raising the
birds from chicks they will be used to us and our environment, including being handled by us. This also gives them all a
chance to establish a pecking order as a small flock. Getting chicks also gives me a bit more time to get the coop
together, but hopefully not a ton more time is needed. I'm zeroing in on a few options, particularly after getting some
advice from another local Santa Cruz Mountains chicken keeper, who warned me about the constant struggle with mice and
rats trying to invade the coop, mostly with interest in the chicken feed contained within.

It's important to keep the mice and rats out of the pen for various reasons, mostly because they can spread disease and
parasites to the chickens, who are known to attack mice and possibly eat them. Chickens are also inquisitive and
basically omnivorous, so the concern too is that they would eat the mice feces, which is again a vector for the chickens
to pick up some unpleasantness. There's also the potential for injury should a mouse or rat decide to defend itself from
the chicken assault. So, bad news all around, and I'll want to design the chicken coop to be as pest-free as possible.

After recharging some of my emotional batteries by playing Hollow Knight I took a stab at a draft of the announcement
email for the {% include tag_link.html tag="supercollider" %} code formatting rollout. Here's to hoping for a smooth
announcement, with minimal to no further alienation of developers on any side of the issue.

