---
layout: post
title: "Putterin'"
date: 2019-05-27
tags: [ personal, sclork ]
---

Got up fairly early, particularly for a weekend morning, and make pancakes with a side of veggie sausage for breakfast.
The weather was looking gorgeous and it being a bank holiday I figured we would be best served hitting the beach early,
to avoid the crowds, so Hilary, the dogs, and I were in the car before 10am.

The beach was incredible, and already starting to fill up with folks, mostly as the fishers who had gotten up earlier
were winding down and the families + doggies crew was starting to roll in. It's been probably over a month since I last
took the doggies to the beach, and I think we've all been missing it some, so it was great to be there. I know I've been
traveling in some incredibly scenic country, the south of France is amazing, but I was grateful for the reminder that
where I am now lucky enough to live is also gorgeous.

When I first lived in the bay area, at 19 years old, I was very lonely, because I didn't know anybody, and hadn't really
connected with anyone at work socially. So the weekends in particular could be pretty rough. I didn't have very much
money, sometimes not enough for basic expenses and certainly not for entertainment. I wasn't old enough to go to the
bars, and honestly even when I did become old enough I've never had much interest in that scene. So, until some friends
from New Mexico moved out I found weekends really rough. One of the things that I found to do that passed the time was
to go on long drives in the Santa Cruz mountains. I didn't have a smartphone (it was the late 1990s) and so I could get
pretty lost in the back roads.

I remember being so struck by how beautiful these mountains are, and thinking that folks who live here must be so
incredibly fortunate to do so. And now that's where I live. It's good to leave home a bit because it can give one
perspective. And my perspective, today, is one of gratitude.

During the vacation I switched from eating strictly vegan to eating a vegetarian diet. There just weren't very many good
vegan options in the French countryside, and the cheese just looked to good to realistically pass up. I've been enjoying
the vast expansion of available food options, too. One of the things I'd been wanting to do for a long time, but didn't
quite see the point as a vegan, is get a few chickens as pets, for fresh eggs and the ever-fascinating chicken
narrative. So today I spent some time preparing (mostly by researching and ordering supplies off of Amazon), as it looks
like I might be able to pick up some chicks from the local feed store this Saturday.

There was some work on the {% include tag_link.html tag="sclork" %} project to add emoji to the chat but I didn't dig in
as deep and focus as maybe would be required to really build the feature. I'm iterating on the design, too, but the code
is feeling a bit messy for my taste. I'll probably get it into a place where I have a usable design I'm happy with, then
refactor it to make it more elegant and organized before finalizing. Not sure when/if I'll have time to complete it, at
least in draft form, before rehearsal a week from today, but that's still the goal.

Lastly I spent some considerable time re-playing Hollow Knight, this time on the Xbox One. It's been a great game to
rediscover, in some ways more satisfying than the first playthrough.

And we'll try to get to bed early again tonight, hoping to keep this streak of getting up early and going to bed early
for a little while longer.

