---
layout: post
title: "WFLONHR"
date: 2019-05-21
tags: [ personal, supercollider ]
---

I had no in-the-office meetings today on my calendar, and no field research either, so I chose to spend the day today
working from my hotel room here in London. The morning started off a bit slow, as it was still the middle of the night
for the lion's share of my California-based team, but things started to pick up a bit in the afternoon as those folks
started waking up. I booked a few online meetings with my management team for the evening but was largely able to work
quietly from the hotel room.

You end up feeling like a bit of a space creature, spending a whole day almost entirely bunked up in a hotel room, but
it certainly can be productive. When I did go out, particularly for dinner, I felt very aware of other people and what I
perceived as their reactions, perceptions, and moods.

There was some time to work on {% include tag_link.html tag="supercollider" %}. I hit a bit of a bump when I discovered
that the native methods for converting a string to an Integer or a Float are currentlyy naive (calling ```atoi``` and
```atof```, respectively) which doesn't account for the broad diversity of syntactically valid ways of specifying
numbers in SCLang. I took a detour to repair and made some good progress, with some more work needed to convert floating
point numbers that aren't base-10, as well as Floats with sharp and flat suffixes.

I was able to call Hilary and say goodnight, for her during the early afternoon. It will be good to return home again. I
love to travel, get out and see the world, but a night's sleep in my own bed, with my wife at my side, would be a mighty
fine thing right about now.

