---
layout: post
title: "Mastery"
date: 2019-07-25
tags: [ personal ]
---

Having gotten so much to think about from the Deep Work book, I moved on to another book by Cal Newport,
[So Good They Can't Ignore You](http://www.calnewport.com/books/so-good/). I'm only into the second chapter but already,
once again (if to a somewhat lesser extent), I'm surprised by the power of his words and how closely aligned some of his
observations are to things that I've felt, intuited, or held as values, but maybe not always been so articulate about.

One gem from this one, which I shared with a Google Engineering Residency cohort I was lecturing to this morning as a
volunteer, is that I think it would be really helpful for me to shift my focus from *extrinsic* career milestones, like
getting promoted, to ones that are definitely more in my control, such as mastery. It makes me think that one of the
significant challenges in my shift to management is that I don't have as nearly a clear idea what mastery of management
looks like. To be fair, I think learning to discern mastery of software engineering has taken a great deal of time and
effort, so it's not like I'm going to figure it out over night.

But my goal now, instead of getting promoted, is to develop mastery of engineering management. The first step will be to
determine what exactly that mastery resembles. Right now it sort of feels like that classical definition of obscenity,
something like "I can't tell you what it is, but I know it when I see it." I think surrounding myself with capable
managers, like my peers and leadership team, is certainly a good start. But I want to go deeper in to this. So there
will be more thoughts forthcoming on that, probably post blog restructure.

