---
layout: post
title: "Base 64"
date: 2019-07-29
tags: [ personal, sclork ]
---

It turns out that the [Pistache](http://pistache.io/) library I'm using doesn't like sending binary data as part of POST
uploads, so I started looking for a [fast Base-64 encoder](https://github.com/aklomp/base64) for the
{% include tag_link.html tag="sclork" %} asset sharing system. Since there's no CMake build file written for this
library I thought I would take a crack at the ```ExternalProject_Add``` CMake command. I've read the various KitWare and
other documentation about how this is the new correct way to add dependencies. It took a couple of tries but I was able
to get the base64 include files and object file building and usable in my own code. I'm not sure if I'm ready to port
all of the other dependencies over to ```ExternalProject``` from git submodules but I do like the idea that CMake can be
configured to pull in latest versions of things, which does seem somewhat useful for development, but perhaps not
deployment.

Had a chat with Bruno today, the SCLOrk conductor, about what potential applications I can imagine for the asset system.
I'm making more work for myself but the more I hack on this thing the more certain I am that the chat system is going to
pull in the entire network functionality that I've written, and that it is going to be centralized around the asset
system. It's a permanent archive of everything that has been shared, accessible from any computer on the network. So it
was easy to think of use cases and potential for collaborative performance using this system.

So, lots more hacking to do, and hopefully the base64 encode won't drag the system down.

