---
layout: post
title: "Deep Work"
date: 2019-07-22
tags: [ personal ]
---

A friend recommended the book [Deep Work](http://www.calnewport.com/books/deep-work/) the other day to me, so for my
first commute back to work after the sick leave I started listening to the audiobook version of it. I'm only through
about a third of it but finding that it's hitting a lot of resonances for me. The thesis of the book is that we are
driven to distraction by technology all the time, and it's impacting our ability to concentrate and really focus on
something deeply, which is a requirement for doing any kind of great work in a variety of fields, which in my opinion
definitely includes computer science stuff.

I've realized how fragmented my attention has become, particularly with the transition from programming to engineering
management. As a programmer, my meeting load was typically under 1 meeting a day, on average, and the rest of the time
was mostly spent "heads-down," working on the code. Google is a believer in the open-office floor plan, which is
unfortunate, but for my very first promotion I bought myself a decent pair of headphones and a small headphone amp,
because I realized that in order to be productive in that environment I was going to have to wear headphones for 8+
hours a day.

As an engineering manager, however, my time allocated in half hour chunks. It's like the job is entirely built for
shallow thinking, or at least there are powerful tendencies in place towards that direction. There's some talk in the
book about "business," which I experience with a high meeting load almost daily, and "productivity," which is about
actually getting meaningful work down.

This isn't a condemnation of all meetings, far from it, but rather presents an interesting perspective for evaluating
workday activities along the lines of *depth* and *meaningfulness*. It's certainly the case that my job could benefit
greatly from me being less distracted, stressed out, and also from me having the time to think deeply around a broad
variety of issues facing the team and our products every day. I also wonder if it might help in the realm of *artifacts*
like design and product documentation, which I must admit were a bit light on my last promo attempt, making it difficult
for the committee to assess my contribution as a leader to the various initiatives across my team.

There's also, of course, the need for this at home, where I'm engaged in various projects for SuperCollider, SCLOrk,
egregious, Scintillator, and others. And of course, even this blog could benefit. Some postings I go back and read and
they kind of read like a hot mess, and I realize it was probably because I was distracted when I wrote it, not deeply
engaged in writing. I might end up moving to a format, after the first year of daily posts is done, of moving to less
frequent but more highly polished and substantive postings.

So I'm quite curious to move to the second half of the book, where strategies for making time for deep work and
cultivating that kind of depth professionally are discussed.

