---
layout: post
title: "Mixed Bag"
date: 2019-07-17
tags: [ personal, sclork ]
---

Starting to get to that point where I'm *too* rested, I think, and starting to get restless. This would be a bad time to
start working full time, because I do wear out really quickly, but I am starting to skim through the email backlog. That
also leaves some time for sitting on the couch and some time to noodle around a bit more with the
{% include tag_link.html tag="sclork" %} asset sharing system.

After having some two-way communication working between SC lang and the C++ code via OSC, and also finally getting
flatbuffers a bit more cooperative, I'm a bit torn about what the next big task might be. There's tons of work left to
do, so it's not like I'm stuck for things to work on, it's more that things are still taking shape so it's a bit
overwhelming to consider which thing might best bring the most clarity to the overall project. After a bit of faffing
about I decided working on the HTTP peer-to-peer communication for sharing of assets across the network.

[Pistache](http://pistache.io/) still seems like a good framework for this kind of peer-to-peer communication over HTTP,
although the documentation is very sparse, and what is there seems fairly out of date. But the code is written fairly
clearly and I've been able to puzzle my way through their simple server example, enough to get it bolted in to the
confab binary on a temporary basis.

I'm not sure how much appetite I have for figuring out an elegant way to get these nice modern C++ threading frameworks
to pick up an interrupt mask, so right now when I launch the Pistache handler on its own thread it makes the whole
process able to be terminated by CTRL+C again. Maybe not the worst thing ever but I might spend some time looking in to
that again. Most of the advice I see right now says to just access the underlying pthread thread handle and set the
masks there. A bit messy but it gets the job done, I guess. For the moment, though, I'd like to build out some more
substantive handlers for responding to asset requests and remote asset adds, and get that whole side of the design lit
up.

Tomorrow, perhaps, if I'm feeling a bit more rested.

