---
layout: post
title: "Split Day"
date: 2019-07-21
tags: [ personal, sclork ]
---

I think I'm ready to return to work, which is better than not being ready because tomorrow is my first day back. The
last few days I've had some rough insomnia and last night was no different. With enough time off my sleep schedule just
tends to go towards the nocturnal. But this house is not nocturnal, the dogs and
{% include tag_link.html tag="chickens" %} most definitely included, and so that means I start missing a lot of sleep.

Today was kind of a split between playing some more XCOM2 and continuing the work on splitting the Confab program for
{% include tag_link.html tag="sclork" %} into two pieces for a more traditional client-server architecture. I made some
progress on this, breaking confab into two binaries and moving the shared code into a library. Ran into a bit stiffer
headwinds when I started trying to split up the AssetManager, where right now I've dropped all the business logic around
asset storage and retrieval in the file database. The client-server split has made it pretty obvious that the management
stuff was undergoing some scope creep. Plus, I'm not super happy with my use of ```std::async``` and callbacks, so I'm
seeing a rework to that API coming shortly. But it's feeling like productive work towards a tangible outcome, so I'm
feeling pleased about that.

Bruno, the conductor of SCLOrk, and I are talking about submitting a paper to the
{% include tag_link.html tag="supercollider" %} [Symposium](https://pkp.wesleyan.edu/ocs/index.php/SCSym/SC2020) coming
up next year. So I banged out a draft of an abstract for that today too. Reading through the website, I also noticed
that they are accepting proposals for performances and installations as well. So now I'm thinking through a bunch of
other things I could propose. Exciting!

