---
layout: tag_home
title: "Tag: modular"
tag_home: modular
---

I don't remember this, like much of my childhood, but my mom tells me one of
my favorite toys when I was a kid was the control panel from a small airplane
that had been removed from the aircraft and given to my mom as a gift for me.
It sat, apparently, on the floor of my bedroom, and I would spend many hours
sitting in front of it; manipulating the buttons, knobs, and switches, and
imagining.

As a musician I've always tried to explore the sonic possibilities of every
instrument, looking for novel sounds and new ways of expression. I never want
to sound like anyone else. I used to think that this came out of a deep sense
of insecurity about my own merits as a musician, which I definitely still have,
but more recently I've learned that, if you can put that insecurity aside, I
have a fundamental desire to make music that is more expressive, interesting,
and challenging for the listener.

Modular synthesis, at its best, is a combination of these two instincts (and
others) within myself. A giant panel of buttons, knobs, blinking lights, and
switches. Also, an endlessly reconfigurable electronic instrument with a
hopefully inexhaustible sonic space.

The modular synth market right now is exploding, with lots of wonderful new
boutique module manufacturers making wonderful and interesting stuff, and the
major music companies now starting to take note and bring their own product
line to bear.

The modules are pretty darn expensive. This is a far cry from the cheap pedals
that have been the fundamental musical tool of noise musicians for generations.
And, you can't just get a single module and expect to get anything interesting
out of it, although there are now interesting hybrids like semi-modular synths
and other kinds of ways to dip a toe in. But, you will eventually need to get at
least a small skiff to hold and power the modules you have, as well as some
patch cables, in order to really start making any interesting sounds.

Furthermore, most modules seem designed to be very well-behaved even under
bizarre inputs or situations when the typical guitar pedal would be straight up
losing its shit. What I mean is that these modules are usually designed for
electronic music like house or techno, and so are mostly made for sounding like
synth or drum machines of old. I also think that because the users can plug
inputs into outputs arbitrarily most modules are designed with some additional
protections on the inputs to keep them from losing too much control over the
analog signals running around inside of them.

For making regular electronic music this must be great, one can plug things
around in a patch and expect that the speaker cones won't suddenly attempt to
shred themselves due to some module self-oscillating because it didn't like the
voltage it suddenly gained or lost in a bad patch.

But for making noise this sucks. For me the most interesting noise music is
finding the edge between control and loss of control, wobbling carefully on
that active equilibrium. But whether or not a module can be held at the edge
of chaos is not something that can be determined from a spec sheet, marketing
copy, or YouTube demos of the module faithfully doing its regular job.

Plus, given the cost of individual modules, taking a guess can be an expensive
mistake. I've got more HP than I'd care to admit of carefully groomed, well-bred
modules that politely refuse my inappropriate offerings of feedback, chaos,
and abuse.

I post here my findings of various modules, results of experiments, and dreams
of modules that can take us to new sonic territories.

