---
layout: post
title: "Rewrites"
date: 2019-02-26
tags: [ personal, sclork ]
---

Bit of a tough one at work today, with my manager basically convincing me that
the best thing for my perf case would be a rewrite of my packet. This will be
the third writing of the packet, which if I recall correctly from my staff
promotion packet (oh so many years ago, it feels like), was the number of
rewrites required to get the last packet (well the last successful one, anyway)
through.

It's like the first rewrite is just a raw jumble of notes, things that I think
should probably go in there. Then the first rewrite, or the second writing, is
about trying to assemble some sort of narrative. This is usually under my own
initiative, fueled by a sense of panic that perf deadlines are rapidly
approaching and all I have is a law list of bullet points that make no coherent
sense to anyone but me.

I don't know about other people but for me trying to pull some sort of seamless
narrative out of my life that makes it all look so intentional, deliberate,
planned, seems very retroactive. My first wife would sometimes talk about the
personal myth-making process that this is, and looking back at her telling me
about that in our early twenties I have to say that is some of the most wise
observations I heard about people back then.

The reality for me as a manager is that a lot of times it's not entirely clear
to me what would be the optimal thing but I try my best. It's only later, after
maybe months, do patterns begin to emerge, evidence of me solving the same kind
of problems repeatedly, which probably means I need to delegate or restructure.

So the third draft starts when others kindly provide me a narrative that squares
with their own perception of my work, along with the list of bullets and
evidence cribbed from the first and second drafts.

Hopefully the third is the final, because Monday was technically the deadline.
I can probably stretch it for a few more days but that's about it. At least,
once this next rewrite is behind me, I think I'll mostly be able to put my own
perf behind me, and focus on supporting my team through the rest of the process.

Tomorrow we have another {% include tag_link.html tag="sclork" %} concert over
at the Santa Clara University campus. I had taken the day off but am now
going to spend the morning attending a perf-related meeting, then do the
concert, then go back home and grind on perf for the rest of the day. So not
so much with the day off. But it was cool to make a hole in my schedule like
that, because now I have time to focus on that rewrite.

So, yay I guess?

