---
layout: post
title: "Perfcrastination"
date: 2019-02-18
tags: [ egregious, vegan, sclork, kfjc ]
---

While I think it was fair that I had probably unrealistic expectations about
today's productivity, with goals including:

  * Set up for recording and then record an
    {% include tag_link.html tag="egregious" %} track.
  * Finish cleaning the oven and break in the new pizza dish with some home-made
    {% include tag_link.html tag="vegan" %} pizza.
  * Make substantive progress on the {% include tag_link.html tag="sclork" %}
    network clock refactor.
  * Consolidate all of the old SCLOrk Quarks down into two Quarks, one with all
    of the UI code called [SCLOrkUI](https://github.com/lnihlen/SCLOrkUI) and
    one with everything else called
    [SCLOrkCore](https://github.com/lnihlen/SCLOrkCore).
  * Continue the investigation in to building a static version of the Egregious
    web site, I'm looking at [NearlyFreeSpeech](https://nearlyfreespeech.net)
    as a hosting option, since it seems that GitHub, while great for hosting
    project sites, isn't the right fit for this.
  * Write a review for one or both of the two pieces of new music I have from
    {% include tag_link.html tag="kfjc" %}.
  * Get a haircut.

Oh, and also, the thing I probably should have been doing:

  * Write my self-eval and other supporting documentation for perf at work.

But instead Hil and I celebrated the first rain-free day in some time to take
the doggies to the beach. It was a beautiful, sunny day with only a few folks
out on our secret beach location. Then we drove over to a deli that our trainer
has been telling us about for a long time, Deek's, to get Hilary some kind of
traditional Deli sandwich she was excited for.

When we got home I sat down and beat Dead Cells, much to my satisfaction. It
was 4pm and now I decided it was finally time to attempt some productivity. I
cleaned up a few things, packed away a few more, and made a bit more room to
start setup for recording some material for Egregious.

I *did* manage to consolidate the quark code into the new SCLOrk Quarks, and
clean the oven. And really there's nothing here that is particularly costly to
delay on, except perhaps for the perf work. I think there will likely be some
later nights coming up.

At best, I could view this day as a last day of goofing off and relaxing before
the heavy grind begins of perf, combined with the various responsibilities and
obligations on the other projects going on right now. And it was cool to get
Dead Cells beat, although there's tons more to unlock, feels like a good time
to step away from that game for a moment and dig back in to the various creative
projects looming.

Hopefully I won't pay for the day off, long-term. And stressing out about all
the stuff I was trying to avoid wasn't the most relaxing day off ever but that
was the only way some downtime was going to happen this weekend.

