---
layout: post
title: "Tabata"
date: 2019-02-23
tags: [ egregious, sclork ]
---

You may be familiar with the Tabata, a timing schedule for workouts. The way it
normally works is 20 seconds of work followed by 10 seconds of rest, for 8
rounds. Because of the short duration of the work cycles the typical expected
intensity is high. The running joke about Tabata workouts is usually that the
work cycle is the longest 20 seconds of your life, and the rest cycle the
shortest.

I feel there's some kind of Tabata effect happening this weekend, with the
work cycle being the past work week, of course, and the rest cycle being today
as part of the weekend. Last week felt pretty darn long, and even though I
got up early this morning to head over the hill for samba class, it feels like
9 pm rolled around before I even noticed.

Now that I think of it, Hil and I *did* take a nap in the afternoon, so perhaps
that had something to do with feeling like the evening did just blow right
past me. I did manage to get another piece of that IKEA furniture built to
further the studio-in-my-office setup for
{% include tag_link.html tag="egregious" %}, and went through quite a bit more
of the crap in my office.

I also did some additional tinkering with the new
{% include tag_link.html tag="sclork" %} clock, including fixing a nasty bug
with the new state change scheduling stuff. So, I'm basically back where I was
before the state changing stuff derailed the old design. Once I got tempo
changes working locally I left the clock server running on my workstation and
popped over to check the synchronization on my laptop. It was obviously broken,
and pretty badly at that, so I guess that's the next thing to fix.

I'm feeling like I could really use another few weeks off just to kind of get
level with everything going on around my house, and everything I want to do,
but I'm not really seeing that happen until I'm clear of perf. Life is feeling
like a fractal of Tabatas all of a sudden, with fast-moving patterns of rest
in all scales interspersed with slow-moving times of work.

I hung out briefly with an old friend from work yesterday who shared that the
more he meditates on it the more certain he is that time is an illusion. Perhaps
he is right but the pragmatic part of me still wonders what such a realization
would change in my life.

So many things in this world can be seen as arbitrary conventions that we all
obey for the purpose of an orderly, structured life. And perhaps there is a
tyranny here of our own devising. But that won't stop my puppy Molly from
trying to wake me up tomorrow morning with the dawn, hopeful I'll get out of
bed and feed her breakfast.

