---
layout: post
title: "Gentoo Pi"
date: 2018-10-13
tags: [ sclork ]
---

Spent the morning and afternoon doing regular human things like exercise,
grocery shopping, making green chile stew for the fall, and eating it.

Then it was time to sit down and get this Gentoo on a RPi 3 B+ thing going in
earnest. The idea is to build a good OS install using Gentoo, optimized for
audio rendering with {% include tag_link.html tag="supercollider" %}, and with
very little else installed on the machine. I like using Gentoo because you build
everything from source, so you can ensure its optimized for the specific
targeted hardware and need you have in mind.

If I can build a usable Gentoo for this single RPi on the SD card, then the next
step is to get that same Pi booting off the image from over the network, via
NFS. This is after, I assume, I have a working Gentoo install on the fanless
Linux audio server computer that is on its way to me in the mail right now.

First thing to realize about installing Gentoo on an RPi is that the kernel
comes presupplied, so you can skip through much of the initial handbook setup
by just installing the kernel supplied by the Raspberry Pi organization. There
are two setup guides for Gentoo on RPi, but neither one is official, and both
are incomplete. I found
[this one](https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Raspberry_Pi/Quick_Install_Guide) to
be more useful, despite being called the "Quick Install Guide" it contained a
lot more explanation and information than the other one.

Now I've booted the Pi and am trying to get a build of `vim` going on the
machine. Holy crap that takes a while on the RPi! I don't even have the
preliminary stuff set up and I'm already finding these build times as
pretty ridiculous. Doing a broad system-wide update, and then rebuilding the
entire OS from source, seems like it would take days, and that's just for the
super-minimal system I'm trying to build, with none of the bigger dependencies
like X or KDE.

Definitely going to be taking a look at some of the
[cross-compilation](https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Raspberry_Pi/Cross_building)
options of Gentoo here. Looks like making this computer into a build server is
in my future, given that I have plenty of time even waiting for `distcc` to
build.

I'm seeing some [other](https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Cross_build_environment)
indications that `crosstool` and other cool Gentoo tricks could be used to
create a chrooted environment for cross-compilation of the entire system on
the host computer. Given that I'm planning long-term on keeping the image
hosted on another computer, with the PXE boot, this might be ideal. But one
thing at a time, distcc seems a bit more like a low-key entry to this
crazy cross-compilation world.

`crossdev` wants a local overlay, for reasons which are still a bit opaque to me
but seem like it might just be that the tools and configuration it generates
should not be confused with the host machine's tooling, which seems reasonable.
I followed the instructions
[here](https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Custom_repository#Crossdev) to create a
simple one.

I can tell from the distcc report that we are indeed doing host compilation,
but only for some of the things, and speed doesn't see much improved. Time to
leave `ntp` compiling overnight on the Pi.


