---
layout: post
title: "Overturned"
date: 2018-10-04
tags: [ personal ]
---

Despite the risk of rain this morning I took the
[GSA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BMW_R1200GS) in to work. It was a beautiful,
gray morning; oddly warm for the broken clouds in the sky, with the typically
atypical traffic density which feels like a disproportionate response for the
lack of moisture on the ground.

Long day at work, back to back all day, but some good stuff in there. I taught
a class on code reviews to a group of folks new to Google. I used to teach part
time, it was part of how I paid for my grad school classes, but I got pretty
burned out and was glad to return to industry once I finished my Master's
degree. So now that I'm not teaching full time, it's a genuine pleasure to get
a chance to teach folks new to Google a bit about life at the company and some
of the technologies and practices we have.

Teaching and coaching are some of the responsibilities I enjoy in management,
too. I like the diversity of challenges and tasks in my job, and get a lot of
meaning from helping folks on my team to grow.

Then it was home as soon as I could after my last meeting, with homework in
tow, in the hopes that I could let the dogs out sooner in the evening, given
that they'd been pent up all day.

Riding home, I spent the entire ride splitting lanes. Traffic was at a standstill
on 17. You can always tell when you are lane-splitting on a bad traffic jam
because the space between the cars gets less regular and even, and there's gaps
in front and behind of the cars. As I can figure it, this is because folks
aren't paying too much attention in following the lanes (because the cars
seldom move), and folks aren't urgently moving their car forward when the car
in front of them moves, because experience in this jam has taught them that
the car in front of them is only going to move a few feet.

You can also tell it's going to be a bad jam when the cop cars start rushing
down the shoulder on either side. So I was a bit curious to see what was at
the end of the jam. Given how stuck traffic was I was worried they wouldn't
even be letting bikes through. Sometimes you get lucky and if you pull up to
the front of a standstill the cops will let you through, like there's maybe
enough room for a motorcycle to safely ride through the carnage but not enough
for a car to do the same.

I continue to find it remarkable the number of privileges and opportunities
a motorcyclist can legally enjoy in California. Yes, the risks are high, but
the kinds of experiences you can only have on the back of a motorcycle make
it well worth it to me.

At the end of the line of stopped cars was an officer waving cars through, one
at a time. You could see the obstacle from probably 1000+ feet away but it
wasn't until I got significantly closer that I understood what I was looking at
it. It was a heavy tractor, with digging shovel attached. I didn't recognize it
because I was looking at the *bottom* of the tractor. It was halfway off the
flatbed trailer, balanced on one of the corners of the treads, as well as the
shovel, which was laying on the side. I didn't see any wrecked cars or anything
but drove over and around a significant amount of concrete debris.

Looking now on Google Maps, 17 southbound is closed in the area that I rode
rough through. So glad I was able to get home on the motorbike, feed the dogs,
and start in on that homework. I can only imagine when they will be able to
re-open the area. A tractor like that, falling down, that's gonna leave a mark.
